[music]
Earnings are really going strong.
>> There's some great earnings power across
the tech sector.
>> We think equities do go higher later in
the year.
>> Start trimming some of those high
momentum names.
>> I'm positive a lot of this is lighting
money on fire. The [music] question is
when does that fire go up?
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, struggling to bounce,
the tech trade preparing for the next
big earnings test as AI disruption is
fueling a major round in software names
and [music] private market firms are
taking a beating on more concerns that
losses might be looming. Yeah, losses in
particular tied to software companies
after yesterday Anthropic announced a
legal documentation tool that would
compete with some of these software as a
service [music] types of businesses.
Look, disruption is inevitable. Ruptures
are happening right now. The question is
when has it become [music] systemic?
People are looking to private markets
considering how much more their exposure
has gotten to software over the past
couple of years [music] and saying these
guys might be bearing a significant
portion of the losses.
>> To see how this cascaded through the
financial system through the last 24
[music] hours was pretty amazing. A
plug-in at anthropic sparking a route in
software bleeding into the private
credit firms and you can argue this has
been building now for at least [music] 6
to9 months.
>> You can see a huge underperformance in
the software as a service names going
forward. the nine worst performing
companies in the S&P so far year to
date. All are related to this particular
industry and are all down more than 25%
[music]
on the year. So it shows you just how
much dispersion there is. When does this
become systemic? Is this a good sign
showing that this is not a bubble
because you can have these kinds of
losses and they don't percolate out or
is it a bad sign saying this is just the
tip of the iceberg of companies that
could potentially be not necessarily
going to zero but getting pretty low. So
before we worry about systemic risk,
which is right over there somewhere,
worthy of conversation, let's just focus
on profits and margins. Why do [music]
we like software stocks? Great margins,
predictable recurring revenue. Margins
are now threatened and recurring revenue
is [music] a lot less predictable
looking out several years.
>> Well, this is the question. Is it job
destroying or job enhancing? And do you
even need these tools? And we are just
talking about what you talk about
[music] with anthropic and in terms of
what's going on in the legal space. What
happens when [music] there's a plethora
of options whether it's taxes or
pharmaceuticals and it starts to come
into all these other spaces and that is
why it's a huge [music]
problem a year ago we were talking about
deepseek and I feel like that's the
moment right now and I'm having a little
bit of deja vu
>> sell and ask questions later so what are
we selling selling blue out KKR TPG
Blackstone Apollo they're not all going
to have the same approach to the same
story [music] and I think it's worth
going to the quote as our colleagues
here at Bloomberg have done this morning
from John Zito of Apollo only last year,
last fall. The [music] real risk is is
software debt. A direct quote from him.
A lot of these firms are not going to be
walking blind into this situation.
They're going to be very aware of what
was building over the last year or
[music] so.
>> This is the problem with private
markets. People don't see exactly what
the exposure is at [music] any given
time. When you take a look at business
development companies, one of the
biggest of the and most visible of
private markets, you can see that the
exposure to software related assets has
gone to 20% from 20 uh from just 10% in
2016. [music] You can see expectations
for defaults exceeding 10% very quickly
should this escalate. So you look at
this, people start saying there's pain
here. [music] I don't see exactly how
exposed some of these are. So sell first
and ask questions later.
>> Futures just about positive this
morning, bouncing back by a tenth of 1%.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Chris [music] Ferrron of Strategus. The
stocks are struggling to bounce. Pier
Fugo of New Street Research joins us as
software stocks plunge on AI fears.
Chenjo of Red Fin joins us as President
Trump takes on the housing market. We
begin this hour with stocks little
change with more big tech earnings still
ahead. Chris Verona Strategus, a bad
company, writing the handoff from the
market's more speculative corners to the
real economy has been and remains an
important theme. Chris joins us now for
more. Chris, good morning. Good to see
you.
>> Great to be here.
>> This isn't the story the last 24 hours.
It's been building for a while. Walk us
through what you've been seeing and
where you think we're going next.
>> Well, let's first start with kind of
where the topic was with some of these
private credit stocks. I mean, this is
not new. These began weakening in our
work probably June, July, August of last
year. And we always say when things are
in downside uh when uh when things are
in downtrends, expect to be surprised to
the downside. And these have been in
downtrends for 6 months. The software
stocks have been in downtrends for 6
months. So, I don't think we should be
terribly surprised how this is resolving
itself. It does feel a little
capitulative in the near term. You know,
you could say there's a a bit of a
deepseek feel to this from 12 months
ago. I I would kind of keep that in mind
tactically, but there's still long-term
downtrends when you're talking about
software or private capital. I think the
good news is this has so far been a
pretty elegant handoff from these
speculative corners of the market to the
the chemicals and the regional banks and
the defense stock. So, I take some
comfort. I mean yesterday was a great
example of this software hammered breath
was actually even one to1 advancers
versus decliner. So you haven't seen
that real spill over into the market's
other corners.
>> So this is the handoff to the real
economy that you've been playing for
quite a while. Do you expect that to
continue from here in an up market or is
this just a relative outperformance
story in a down market?
>> So this is the big question for 26. Is
it a year where equal weight S&P is up
17 and NASDAQ's up seven or is it a year
where equal weight's up seven and
NASDAQ's down seven? Right? It's the
same net result but very different ways
of getting there. Listen, I think when
you look at when this handoff began, go
back to September, October. Um, it began
with things like you began to see the
transports turn up. You began to see
retail turn up. I still think we're
relatively young in this move. It's
across asset classes uh as well.
Frankly, you see it with bond yields.
this move in yields from 390 to 420 425
over the last couple months I think has
been more about growth than it has been
about any real sinister thing uh that's
happening
>> a lot of people will question how far
some of the uptrend can go if you don't
get the participation of some of the big
names and if you don't get the
participation of the spending that's
come along with a lot of these big names
which a lot of people have said has
really supported the US economy do you
think that the US economy can can
continue to grow and support some of the
more cyclical stocks if you don't have
all of that spending and enthusiasm from
the big tech names.
>> So, if you think about it in terms of
index construction, Lisa, I think you're
absolutely right. And maybe the last
three or four months are a good example
of this. We basically have been stuck
between 6750 and 7,000 on the S&P
despite the actually the internals
getting better, the breadth getting
better because we don't have the big
weights driving us higher. So, I I I
certainly think that's being reflected
at the index level. In terms of how the
economy perceives this, a few things I
would watch. The transports are on a
ripper right here. You're not seeing any
message from trucks, from freight, from
from marine that there's a a budding
economic problem. One thing I might
watch that's maybe a bit more squeamish
is discretionary here. I mean, there's
this fully formed narrative that first
half 26 is about to be, you know, all
about tax refunds and consumer stimulus.
I would like the consumer stocks to
validate that that thesis a bit more
than they are at the moment. I I think
that's the one question mark we have. Is
this an economic recovery driven by like
real economy cyclicals or consumer
cyclicals? I I I think those are
different.
>> You know, I want to go back to something
that you were saying which is that this
gives you comfort and it's kind of
speaks to the conversation we were
having with uh you're going to see
disruption, you're going to see ruptures
and the fact that it's been so orderly
is something that makes you feel good.
Is this the anatomy of the AI bubble
bursting? is this it essentially where
it's just sort of this nice easy
rotation into everything else and then
you've got a couple of names that just
fall to zero because ultimately they're
the yellow pages of 2026.
>> I mean isn't this the same discussion
people were having about consumer
staples for the last two or three years?
Oh look like they're all going to zero
at the same time the software stocks or
the tech stocks go up. So it's this
another piece of evidence that we're in
a very very rotational moment. And I
also think it speaks to just how little
we know about what the trajectory of AI
is over the course of the next year or
two years. I mean, I I just keep going
back to this time last year. Google was
supposed to be dead. Turned out to be
the best performing of the Mag 7. You
think about a couple months ago, Apple
was supposed to be dead. It's the one
stock actually emerging here as one of
the leaders there. So, I think you got
to hold all the narratives really,
really lightly um and be very
imaginative and very open to to what
could change. I would put some
probability, I don't know whether it's
10, 20, 30, 40% that the real asset
bubble is still in front of us, right?
If if if this economy is reacelerating
and we're going to cut into it over the
next 12 plus months, um maybe the fund
is yet to be had.
>> You mentioned consumer staples, Walmart
yesterday hitting $1 trillion while tech
stocks are going lower. Is that
potentially the best case for how AI
could be used for some of these
brickandmortar and old kind of old
school names? Well, like let's put this
in context of the last few years. Like
2024 was all hyperscalers, right? 25 was
all about memory stocks, the microns.
Um, you kind of get to 26 here. You're
wondering, okay, we've got hyperscalers,
memory. There need to be beneficiaries
of all this. So, I think Amarie, perhaps
Walmart is example one. Maybe healthcare
is example two. I'm waiting for the
narrative to become, oh, look how good
healthcare is acting. Oh, because
they're the beneficiary of all this AI
stuff. So, you know, think about where
the narrative will go in time. I think
healthc care is unique uh in that
regard.
>> Can I ask a stupid question?
>> There's no stupid question.
>> Are small caps defensive?
[laughter]
>> Are small caps defensive? Um when you
look at Russell 2
>> relative to the risk that we're talking
about? I think Russell too more reflects
where we're going in terms of mainstream
real economy over a lot of the
speculative corners that have been
rewarded in this um you know big Fed
balance sheet expansion we've seen over
the last 15 plus years and you know this
is the one thing I think people are
missing about the wars do nomination
here we've all read a lot about how it
means smaller balance sheet yeah but it
means bigger bank balance sheets right
so if bank balance sheets are going to
get bigger as the Fed balance sheet gets
smaller.
>> Regional banks or big banks?
>> Big banks. I'm saying we are um to steal
a phrase, we're we're we're basically
privatizing the Fed balance sheet. I
think that is very bullish for real
economy, for Main Street relative to a
lot of the stuff that has been so in
favor for the last 15 years as the Fed
balance sheet was expanding. You have an
amazing chart in your note about the S&P
500 performance based off the
confirmation days. It was waiting
between a nominee being nominated and
then actually getting confirmed. What
are you putting on the S&P 500 and Kevin
Ward?
>> I was surprised by this. Um, you know,
there's always the old saying that new
Fed chairs get tested and history has
borne that out. You know, relatively
early in a new Fed chair's term. Uh, he
or she will be tested by the market. We
certainly saw it with Powell in 18
twice. Um but if you look at that period
typically lasts about 3 or 4 months
between uh nomination and confirmation
generally been a very good period for
stocks. I think the average was up maybe
7 8%. So I don't know what to make of
that other than that's the historical
president. I I don't know if it holds
this time or not. It's certainly not the
biggest sample. I think we have four or
five examples there going back to
Vulkar. Um but maybe a little bit
different than people expected.
>> All I can say John is that you said is
the Russell 2000 defensive? And since
then, I've been looking at the
components of the Russell 2000. You've
asked me this before. Can you name some
of the three biggest companies in
Russell 2000
>> members in front of you?
>> I mean, honestly, this is this to me
just highlights, you know, this idea of
what are people going into, right? And
is there sort of a rolling ball of money
that is looking for somewhere to go and
it's too much for some of the areas it's
heading into.
>> This is a great point and you know, we
talk about the market cap of the Russell
2 versus the market cap of Mag 7.
>> It's tiny. It's it's remarkably tiny and
the top of the Russell too where the big
weights are. I would not kind of put in
this defensive um you know real economy
type type group. That's why I think
ultimately over the longer term you'll
have better success with ecoe S&P over
Q's as more of a barometer of what we're
trying to capture here. Equal weight
outperformance yesterday, small caps
positive yesterday. We saw that in the
price action.
>> Yeah. But this to me goes to the idea of
if you have people looking for
defensives and they're imperfect
proxies, right? If you can't go into
treasuries, you go into gold. Well,
that's an imperfect proxy because
there's a lot of money going into it. If
you can't go into large caps, you go
into small caps. How many distortions do
you end up getting that create some real
volatility? And that's what I keep
focusing on. It's amazing we haven't
seen broader ruptures. And yet, at the
same time, the distortions have been
absolutely shocking.
>> We've had several blowups now. Yeah,
we've been listing them. You've seen it
in JGBs. You've seen it in precious
metals. You've seen it in software
stocks. Is there anything going on here
that links the three?
>> Well, let me push back on JGB's for a
minute. Um,
>> 20 to 30 basis points didn't do it for
you in a single day.
>> Certainly, [laughter] there was a
velocity of the move the last couple
weeks that was different than maybe the
the year that preceded it,
>> but for 30 or 40 years, falling JGB
yields wasn't particularly helpful
either, right? So, we're thinking about
this. I mean, Nikk just broke out last
September from a 40-year range. Um maybe
the market's saying, "Hey, let's try
reflation." Uh the other stuff didn't
work for the last 40 years. So I'm much
more sanguin on the move in JGB yields.
You know who doesn't care about yields
in Japan? Japanese banks new highs.
Japanese real estate stocks new highs.
Japanese life insuranceers new highs. So
I think we got to be a little bit
careful with the oh this must be bad
because JGB yields are up.
>> Well, there one thing I want to pick up
on and you're speaking to it. the moves
we are seeing globally in the Aussie, in
foreign exchange, in copper, in base
metals, in the Cosby, in global
equities, what are they linked to? Is
that an improvement in global risk
appetite? And do you think Japan speaks
to the same thing? So, I I think they're
linked to one of three things, and it
doesn't matter what the answer is.
They're either linked to this idea of
resource nationalism, right? Everyone's
hoarding. They're either linked to this
idea that we're in some cyclical
recovery, which is possible. That's kind
of the camp I fall in. Um or third,
they're still part of this AI story,
whether it's memory in in um in South
Korea or copper. Um I think if you own
the stocks, the answer to that question
doesn't matter. The stocks are blunt
instruments. Uh they'll go up if any one
of those three is right. So I don't feel
that like the need to be right with what
my view is there.
>> Just make money. Chris, it's good to see
you.
>> Good to see you.
>> It's nice to spar a little bit too.
Christopher Ran there.
>> Fun strategus very much so. Equity
futures on the S&P up by a tenth of 1%.
And let's keep an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief is
Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Good morning John. The partial US
government shutdown is over. [music]
President Donald Trump signing a funding
deal negotiated with Senate Democrats.
The agreement extends Homeland Security
funding through February 13th. It does
fund the rest of the government through
the fiscal year.
Federal Reserve Governor Steven Myron is
stepping down from his post leading the
White House Council of Economic
Adviserss. Myron had been on unpaid
leave from his White House role since
September when President Donald Trump
nominated him to the Fed board. Myron is
serving on the Fed in a temporary basis,
filling a seat vacated early by Biden
administration appointee [music] Adriana
Cougler.
Nvidia is nearing a deal to invest $20
billion in Open AI, marking the
chipmaker's single biggest investment in
the chat GPT developer. sources telling
us here at Bloomberg, Nvidia's
contribution is close to being [music]
completed, but is not final and the
terms could change. Open AAI is looking
to raise up to 100 billion dollars in
funding for a new round with much of
that coming from large tech firms.
[music]
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. Up next on the
program, the [music] route in software
stocks.
>> At the end of the day, the sum total in
our mind is that people are [music]
cautious with regard to technology. And
think about that. That's actually
[music] the kind of wall of worry that
keeps markets moving forward.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Mandep Sink
of Bloomberg Intelligence live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Live from New York City, welcome to the
program. Following the biggest 1-day
loss on the S&P in some 2 weeks, [music]
this is the bounce. There's not much of
one. We're up by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500. So much of the pain yesterday
concentrated in software stocks and
private market firms like KKR. KKR had
its worst day since [music] April of
last year. And there was a range of
those names in the mix. equally painful.
>> Yeah, they all came down at the same
level at the same time. [music] Just
absolutely slammed yesterday on the
expectation that they have much bigger
exposures to some of these software
themes and that defaults could rise to
uh north of 10% in short order should
the disruption continue to build [music]
again. Are they getting penalized for
the lack of transparency in their books
because they can't all be the same in
terms of their portfolios?
>> The small caps outperformed yesterday,
outperforming again this morning. The
Russell so far up by about a third of 1%
under [music] Sylvanas this morning. the
route in software stocks.
>> What's interesting is the bifurcation in
the technology sector. Chip [music]
makers that are you know really have
been powered forward whereas software on
the other hand is in the doghouse the
[music] sum total in our mind is that
people are cautious with regard to
technology [music] and think about that.
That's actually the kind of wall of
worry that keeps markets [music] moving
forward.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Anthropic rolling out its latest AI tool
sparking a $285 billion round in
software stocks. Joining us now to
discuss is Bloomberg's Mandep Singh.
Mandep, welcome to the program. Mandy,
we've talked so much already about the
market moves. Not enough about the
technology. What did Anthropic actually
reveal yesterday?
Well, they launched a new product and
they have been launching uh a lot of new
products that are coded by their coding
agent tool with minimal human
intervention in terms of you know the
human generated code. So from that
perspective their cadence and product
launches have really taken off and
that's what's spooked the market. My
question here is are they going to
rewrite a lot of existing software or
will it going to be for new expansive
use cases and for me you know the
rewriting of existing software is not
something that enterprises would be
interested in. So from that perspective
it feels like an overreaction that you
are going to you know rip and replace
existing software that works very well
and that's what we have seen even with
mainframes that have been around you
know for such a long time that when
something works well enterprises are not
interested in you know rewriting that.
So from that perspective clearly the
valuations uh that have compressed
around software names seem to be an
overreaction here. That said, Mandep,
the fact that this really boring
release, I read through the exact
release and it was just a page of text
talking about some very granular ways of
getting legal documents up and it
highlights just how nervous and skittish
people are about some of these large
language models completely uh disrupting
everything. Are there other areas that
you see as ripe for disruption based in
some of the technology and the way that
it's developing in terms of the
potential skills that anthropic or open
AAI could develop?
>> I mean look the coding agent success has
uh been a great example of you know
driving productivity among developers
where uh a lot of things were done
manually you know in terms of how the
code was written and how much time it
took. So from that perspective that was
a new use case doing document summaries
extracting information from documents.
These are all you know use cases where
you can see the productivity benefits.
Uh I I think uh that's where you have to
delineate what is disruptive versus what
is incremental or you know a
substitution of what was being done in
the past. And from that perspective, I
do think you know co-pilots or being
ability to wipe code ideas is great. But
when it comes to production readiness
and you know using a probabilistic
versus a deterministic framework, that's
where uh we will find out you know
whether a probabilistic framework that
these companies have with LLMs is good
enough for a lot of critical systems and
uh my guess is that won't be the case.
Do you think that Anthropic and OpenAI
are happy and frankly all of the
hyperscalers are happy to just sort of
develop this inhouse or do you see or
foresee some acquisitions of the actual
data and the capabilities at some of
these SAS companies, some of these
softwares as a service companies that
are already out there?
>> Well, clearly, you know, these companies
have been partnering and developing an
ecosystem, you know, around what they
are doing in terms of ingesting data and
how these models are trained. So uh I
think what a lot of companies have to
think is how will the UI change because
I do think you know uh voice will be a
lot more prominent going forward and
also you know there could be a workflow
console where you can access a lot of
these applications as opposed to logging
into you know individual applications.
So those are the sort of uh changes you
can expect in terms of user interface
and modalities. But in the end it comes
down to you know how critical the system
is how much accuracy you need in from
that software and that's where a lot of
these large angled models don't have
that 99.99% accuracy that you need with
a lot of the software that we use on a
day-to-day basis. Vande, when it comes
to software companies, who's best
positioned to deal with these kind of
disruptions like we saw overnight from
Anthropic?
>> Well, so we did see sort of a barbell
distribution this quarter in terms of
beat and raises. I mean, a company like
Palunteer really has been on a tear in
terms of what they are doing with their
topline growth. Same thing with Meta.
And so you could argue on the software
side, we don't have a lot of names like
this and that's what's reflected in the
valuation. the fact that topline growth
seems to be decelerating but we will
find that you know the cloud businesses
I mean Google reports tonight and I do
expect you know that cloud business will
continue to accelerate we didn't see
that with Microsoft but that's where I I
still think there is a lot of growth on
the public cloud side
>> well Mandy let's finish on Microsoft and
talk about that problem last week
capacity constraint we get that but
you've got a decision do you allocate
the capacity to internal objectives
co-pilot or do you allocate it to Azour
customers
Is that question even more important
given the moves we've seen recently?
>> Well, I I think Microsoft clearly caught
a lot of people offguard with that
comment about allocating capacity to
first party product. And so from that
perspective, I do think they are still,
you know, supply constraint when it
comes to uh the AI infrastructure. So
whether Amazon has more capacity or
Google has more capacity, we'll see in
their growth rates. But clearly uh
Microsoft wants to make sure that you
know Office 365 continues to grow over
20% as well in addition to what they're
doing on the Azure side and that's why
they're beefing up you know the R&D that
they are spending on their core products
rather than just being a cloud provider.
>> Mandep good to hear from you. Thanks for
jumping on. Mandep Singh there of
Bloomberg Intelligence. Things are
moving super super fast. Chris Veronica
said it just 20 minutes ago. Don't hold
on to those narratives too tightly
because things can change overnight.
>> Yeah. And we [music] saw that with
DeepSeek, right? It was going to change
everything and it was going to remove
the need for hyperscalers. And then here
we are with those uh even bigger and
people just continuing to believe that
they'll be the dominant players.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall after the
US shoots down an Iranian [music] drone.
Plus, Yihara has your morning movers.
AMD falling. The stock is down by more
than 8%.
[music]
>> [music]
>> live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Price action scores look like
this. We're positive by a tenth of 1% on
the S&P. Yesterday, the biggest one-day
decline in some two weeks on the S&P
500. Beneath the surface, breaking it
down. More names advancing yesterday
than declining. That's why you [music]
see the outperformance and say the equal
weight. Even looking at the small caps
outperformance yesterday again this
[music] morning. The Russell up by 0.4.
The pain just concentrated around a big
group of software names. Plus the
private market firms getting absolutely
hammered throughout yesterday's session.
>> There was a real fear that the potential
new advancements particularly from
anthropic would disrupt companies that
provide services tied to uh legal
documents in particular based on a new
announcement. And as Mandep Singh was
saying, the fact that they can call
information, analyze it, and put into
legal documentation is a new
breakthrough by anthropic. [music] That
said, is people are people throwing the
baby out with the bathwater because they
cannot envision how far some of these
large language models can go with
respect to disrupting existing streams
of revenue that go to these uh software
as a [music] service companies.
>> People are nervous. I imagine you saw
the hung deal over at Deutsche Bank
yesterday. If you [music] weren't
following that story, a group of banks
led by Deutsche Bank unable to sell
about $1.2 2 billion of loans backing
the acquisition of guess what? A
software provider. It makes people
nervous and that's where people are at
right now.
>> UBS uh analysts estimate that default
rates could re [music] rise 13% pretty
quickly this year, particularly among
private credit companies if the
disruption in software [music] is
aggressive. This is because some of the
private companies have increased their
exposure to software companies at a
significant pace. You were talking about
this before. This is a steady steam
stream of revenue. It seems so obvious.
it's recurring revenues, but do those
revenues fall off the [music] cliff?
Even if their their technology isn't
obsolete, but just because they have a
real competitive uh opponent,
>> you start asking questions about
margins. One, and we mentioned it,
[music] the predictable recurring
revenue is looking somewhat less
predictable after the events of the last
12 months or so. Turning to the bond
market, switch up the board. Yields are
higher by a single basis point on 10 428
near the top end of the range for
[music] the year. And in precious
metals, an update for you. Gold boys for
the best 2-day rally going back to 2020
following the biggest 2-day selloff
going back to 2013. [music]
So, it's been quite a ride over the last
week or so. Gold this morning up by
1.6%. Silver up by close to five. As we
count it down to the opening bell, 3
hours away. Let's get you some single
names to morning movers. Yahara has
more. Hi, Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. We start with AMD. Shares are
falling more than 8% now in the
pre-market despite the chipmaker beating
on essentially every metric. But it was
the outlook that failed to live up to
the loftiest expectations by investors
amid this ongoing massive AI buildout.
Uh I also want to mention China because
AMD did report a surprise [music] $390
million in sales to China in the last
quarter. Of course that having to do
with the Trump administration [music]
easing export controls on some of the
older chips. Moving on to another
company part of the AI buildout having
better fortunes this morning. that a
super micro computer up nearly 12%
[music]
in the pre-market after the company
raised its outlook signaling strong
demand for its servers used in AI data
centers. Though analysts did point to a
potential weak spot, they say that
future large [music] orders could come
with slim margins due to a highly
competitive bidding process [music]
among the server companies. And after a
brutal 2025, 2026 [music]
could be another challenging year for
Chipotle. Shares are down 6% in the
pre-market after the burrito chain
projected flat same store [music] sales
due to budget conscious diners
especially young ones continuing to pull
back. Though we have seen the selloff
ease from when they first reported it
yesterday. That [music] could be because
executives did say that the outlook was
conservative and that they're starting
to see early signs of [music] success
when it comes to their new products like
their protein focused folds. John
>> Yhara, thanks for the update. The stock
is down by about 6% in [music] the
pre-market. On our radar this morning, a
new AI tool from Anthropics sparking a
near $300 billion global sell-off.
Anthropic new productivity model
expected to automate tasks throughout
legal and data analysis, sending
software stocks plunging. Elsewhere,
Nova Nord is tumbling in European
trading. The maker of Wikovi warning of
a steep decline in sales. This coming as
the Trump administration is ramping up
pressure on drug companies to lower
prices for weight loss drugs. and the
Federal Reserve Governor Steven Myron
resigning from his post as the head of
the Council of Economic Adviserss. Myron
joining the Fed in September, filling
Adriana Kougler's vacated seat and has
been on unpaid leave from the White
House. That's the latest on the
situation with the Fed. Let's turn to
geopolitics. The president negotiating
with Iran.
>> They are negotiating. They'd like to do
something and we'll see if something is
going to be done. Uh they had a chance
to do something a while ago and it
didn't work out and we did midnight
hammer. I don't think they want that
happening again, but they would like to
uh negotiate. We are negotiating with
them right now.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
US envoy Steve Witco meeting with
Iranian foreign minister Friday after
the US shot down a drone it said quote
aggressively approached an aircraft
carrier in the Arabian Sea. Joining us
now for the latest from Washington is
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Tyler, the
energy market spooked by this in the
last 24 hours. Is this an escalation or
not?
>> Well, John, if you ask President Trump,
he's saying that he's not necessarily
concerned by it and that diplomacy is on
the table uh for now, despite what is
considered to be very aggressive action
taken by Iran just yesterday alone. You
mentioned that the US had confirmed that
it shot down an Iranian drone headed for
the USS Lincoln carrier strike group
that is part of those military assets
that were deployed to the region by the
US in recent weeks. Now, the Pentagon
confirms that no American service
members nor equipment were harmed. But
the incident comes the very same day
that Iranian gunboats attempted to board
and seize a US flagged oil tanker in the
straight of Hermuz. Despite all of this,
the president says negotiations are
indeed on track. Yet, at the same time,
when asked directly, he declined to
confirm whether or not there has been a
change when it comes to venue and the
format of the talks. As Bloomberg News
reports that Iran has requested Friday's
planned meeting to be moved from Turkey
to Oman and also for the agenda to be
more limited in scope. According to
people familiar with the matter, Iran
only wants to have discussions about its
nuclear program on the table, which
would mean taking off taking off the
table some of the US's top agenda items,
including Iran's support for uh proxy
militia groups and also its ballistic
missile capacity. So, we're going to
have to see how this ultimately uh
evolves from here since we know that at
this point our analysts at Bloomberg
Economics ultimately say that this could
really just be a stalling tactic for
both sides. John, we'll see if
escalation ultimately uh moves forward.
>> Tyler, thank you. Tyler Kendall down in
Washington DC. Crude higher for a second
session up by about 210 of 1% WTI 63.
Brent crude around 67. That's because
the Iranians said if there were to be a
strike, they could see a regional
conflict expand, not meaning just the
United States and Iran. What I find so
interesting, and I talk to people behind
the scenes, they always say about the
Iranians, give them an inch, take a
mile. They had a meeting set in Turkey.
Why these last minute games now changing
who should be in the meeting, changing
the venue, and changing what should be
under discussion? It sounds like they
are just dragging their feet.
>> If you're just joining us, welcome to
the program. Lots to talk about in
financial markets. Futures positive by
210 of 1%. The big story on Wall Street
to start the week, a new AI tool from
Anthropic sparking a near $300 billion
round in software stocks. Pierre Fed of
New Street Research joins us now for
more. Pierre, Microsoft has been in the
penalty box for quite a while now.
Software stocks have been struggling.
What gets them out of this funk?
Yes, it's uh it's very surprising to see
how fast the market reacted to this um
to this new release by Entropic knowing
that we've been talking about that for
for many many months now. AI is
[clears throat] changing the way we
relate to to computers to software. Uh
and this is clearly a disruptive force.
Um so what we've known and what is still
real is that AI is driving like a tech
investment boom. um it's stronger than
than ever and and the market is kind of
forgetting the that side of the story
and is concerned about productivity
gains. I I find it interesting to you
know remember what happened a year ago
with around the deepsec news where uh
someone came up with excellent
productivity gains and created um a big
setup. So we're kind of seeing like the
deep sync was about hardware
productivity and now entropic is about
software productivity and so there is a
big concern about well if um if lawyers
become way more efficient if data
analysts become way more efficient using
entropic maybe they're going to use less
traditional software that's really the
way the way I read the setup today
>> Pierre there's a real question of
whether it's an overreaction and that's
what we've been talking about this
morning the idea uh that maybe we
haven't really seen any proof and people
are just selling first and asking
questions later This one JP Morgan
analyst Toby Og said we are now in an
environment where the sector isn't just
guilty until proven innocent but is now
being sentenced before trial. Do you
agree? [snorts]
>> Yes, absolutely. I agree that's exactly
what happened with DeepS and my um I I
would have like a a fairly balanced
perspective on on the situation. I think
AI is creating a major disruption. we
are not going to use Microsoft products
uh or like specialized legal software
the same way we we've been using them in
the past. So I kind of sympathize with
like the the nervousness of investors on
on that front. Now the big mistake is to
throw uh everything away because it's
going to be a disruption. It's not going
to be distraction. Remember that
capacity like um efficiency gains are
good for an industry. You remember when
we all heard like these stories about
radiologists that are going to
disappear, they're not going to get a
job because AI is replacing them like 2
three four years down the line what's
happening we we need even more radiology
than we used to despite the fact that
radiologists have been uh made even more
efficient and uh their productivity has
increased very significantly thanks to
AI. So
AI [clears throat] helping lawyers I
think is good for the law business but
it's also a disruption and so a tool
that is not integrating well with AI is
at risk of becoming like irrelevant. The
concern of micro on Microsoft for
instance is really that because as we
see anthropic accelerating getting more
and more successful um with enterprise
clients what we see is that like the
statistics about the adoption of copilot
the AI that Microsoft is trying to
integrate with its existing product
suites is actually not doing great. So
so Microsoft is in a challenging
position at that moment. Now if you take
a step back um you know uh stopping
using Excel, stopping using the
Microsoft Office suite uh is still seems
like very very unlikely and Microsoft
still has time to put their act together
and better integrate their products with
AI. Um and and that's a challenge
they're going to have to to to face now
and yes they're probably like um guilty
and proven innocent on that front.
Pierre, to sort of build on that, why
wouldn't Microsoft say, "Okay, we might
be falling behind with some of the
capabilities. We could go out, we could
buy for cheap some of these SAS
companies, integrate the capabilities
into our software and prevent some sort
of competitive uh counterpart to what
Anthropic is putting out there. Could
you see that kind of wave of
consolidation or acquisition?"
>> Um, so consolidation and acquisition
over like legacy names. um probably
probably a bit challenging because
historically you've always had like you
know this questioning between like do I
build or do I acquire uh building is
becoming easier and building is becoming
more and more flexible and like like an
everyday task like everybody is building
software uh all all their own the main
things this entropics tool are doing is
building software for you on demand on
every single task uh your um uh you're
addressing. So probably like buying like
uh legacy legacy software franchises uh
is probably going to be a challenge and
you by the way you see that in the
reaction in the market in the private
depth market in the private equity
market where people realize you know
this idea that once you have a good
software you're going to generate cash
forever uh might be uh might be
challenging. So it's going to be
difficult to see uh that kind of
acquisition. The priority for Microsoft
is to grow AI infrastructure and they're
actually doing that very well. They're
growing their capex. They're spending
more and more on their data centers and
like their core revenues like Azure
revenues are growing very very fast and
you see that their economics remain very
very strong. So that's really something
the sell off is overlooking which is
that uh the large hyperscalers and
Microsoft first of all are actually
investing in AI uh defending very very
strong uh economics and now the question
for Microsoft is how do I integrate AI
with my existing software suite to make
sure that my legacy business doesn't get
you know destroyed by AI but is actually
a platform on which uh incremental AI
revenues can grow um And on that front,
I still think that like the the grip
Microsoft has on their client and
Microsoft track record at adapting to
new technology makes me feel relatively
opportunistic about how how the company
can tackle the the disruption.
>> A more constructive view. Pierre,
appreciate your time. Pierre FGO there
of New Street Research on Microsoft and
the software names. I keep going back to
these two pillars to try and make things
really simple. People like software
names because of the predictable
recurring revenue and because of the fat
margins. So on the predictable recurring
revenue, Pierre did a great job of
talking about things. The timeline for
development now is much shorter. It's
also much cheaper, which means
challenges pop up all over the place.
And the predictable recurring revenue is
no longer as predictable on the margins.
This is really not about who owns the
technology, but how much you can charge
for the product. And the margins are now
under threat. So when you really think
about the software sphere and the threat
and there are people much educa much
more educated than me on the issue but
ultimately you're seeing a
disinflationary shock go through the
system for these names right now and
that's what the market is attempting to
adapt to
>> and they're trying to attempt to
understand all of the debt tied to those
companies and what the disinflation of
those debt valuations look like. Again,
this is the reason why you've seen
private credit come under such a attack.
But it really does highlight again the
yellow pages moment. You can look
online, you can look on your phone for a
number. You don't have to go to the
yellow pages. How much is that kind of
what's happening as some of these
systems create their own software to
really replace what's out there?
>> NASDAQ futures right now struggling to
bounce. S&P 500 futures up by about 210
of 1%. Let's give an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. The US is preparing
to issue a license allowing companies to
pump oil in Venezuela in an attempt to
help revive the country's energy sector.
sources telling us here at Bloomberg the
Treasury Department could issue the
license as early as this week, building
on earlier steps that allowed trade in
Venezuelan oil.
OpenAI CEO Sam Olman saying the company
may consider investing in or subsidizing
drug discovery firms that rely heavily
on its technology. [music] Oldman
telling a conference that OpenAI could
cover its technology costs and take a
royalty from any breakthroughs. [music]
He says the company has no such
partnerships now and is only exploring
the idea for the future.
NASA is delaying the launch of its
Artemis 2 moon mission until at least
March after a hydrogen leak was detected
during a key fueling test. Engineers are
reviewing data and planning another full
rehearsal before a liftoff. The four
member Artemis crew will exit quarantine
as teams work to [music] ensure the
rocket and spacecraft are ready for the
historic lunar flyby. And that [music]
is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thanks for the
update. Up next, take on the housing
crisis.
>> A person sweats [music] and works and
buys one house they can't. But homes are
built for people, not for corporations,
and America will not become a nation of
renters. We're not going to do that.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Chenzo of
Redfin [music] from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
bouncing back here by almost a third of
1% on the S&P and the NASDAQ can't buy
not even a tenth under Savannah this
morning taking [music] on the housing
crisis.
A person sweats and works and buys one
house they can't but homes are built for
people not for corporations and America
will not become a nation of renters.
We're not going to do that. The house
values have gone up tremendously
and these people have become wealthy. If
I want to really crush the housing
market, I could do that so fast and
people could buy houses.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Home
builders working on a proposal for
so-called Trump homes to address housing
affordability. Drew Ren of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins us now for more.
Drew, welcome to the program. What's
your understanding of what this plan
actually is?
So, I think it's important to first
acknowledge um and the report states
that that this isn't a plan that is
actively being considered by the
administration um but rather it's one of
many ideas that's been floated by the
homebuilders. We know that ever since
the administration came into place last
year that the large public home builders
have been working in tandem with the
administration and policy makers to find
a way to help solve the housing
affordability issue, whether that's
through the demand side or supply side
um considerations such as this. But at
this point, it appears this is just one
of of many proposals being floated out
there.
>> Drew, is this a proposal to appease the
Trump administration or to actually help
the housing market?
Well, I think it's it's a little bit of
both and you know, it's right there in
the name Trump Homes. I think that would
certainly appeal to the administration.
Um, you know, I think it's the builders
extending an olive branch realizing
that, you know, policy makers have said
that, you know, they've got the the
housing market and home builders firmly
in their crosshairs. So, I think the
builders have been trying to get out
ahead of whatever may come down on the
policy side and trying to work in tandem
with the administration.
>> Hey, Drew, it's got to catch up with
you. Thank you, sir. Drew Ren of
Bloomberg Intelligence outlining some of
the plans we're hearing in the last 24
hours. For more, Chenzel, the head of
economics research at Red Fin joins us
now for more. Chen, let's take a step
back. As you look at the housing market
right now, there's clearly problems for
a lot of people with regards to
affordability. What do you think is the
ultimate problem? Does it come from the
demand side or the supply side?
>> I mean, really, the root um of the issue
in the housing market really is on the
supply side. We know that the country is
short many millions of homes um relative
to the number of families and households
that we have. But really even beyond
that, it's a little bit more nuanced
than that in that it's not just that we
don't have enough homes, we actually
don't have enough homes where people
want to live. So there's also a sort of
a misallocation of homes. And so the
idea of building more supply is
something that gets at the root cause of
the affordability issue in housing.
>> Chen, has it been because of zoning
issues? Has it been because of
regulations or has it just been that a
lot of the housing developers haven't
seen the profitability uh proposition
that has prevented them from building
more?
>> You know, I think it's um a little bit
of both. Um you know, the root cause, if
you think about it, has to do with
zoning, right? Um it is very hard in
many places to build the kind of dense
housing that we need in order to address
the housing shortage. Um, but if we were
to just magically flip a switch and say,
"Okay, now all these zoning restrictions
are gone." Would we all of a sudden get
the building that we need? I think that
is a bit of an open question because
builders do need to be able to see that
profitability incentive in order for
them to build the supply that we need.
>> Chen, would it solve the affordability
crisis if people who lived in homes and
were sort of locked in because they had
low mortgages uh started to sell again?
If say older individuals decided to
leave and downsize once they realized
that their four-bedroom house was too
big. I mean some of these types of uh
mobilities that we are not seeing in the
current era of high mortgage rates.
>> Yes. I mean there you know when people
say housing supply it really it's two
different things. It's one it's like
just structurally how many homes there
are in the country right? We're short
many millions of homes. But then there's
also how many homes are actually for
sale in the market, like the supply
that's actually in the market. And like
you said, a lot of people are locked in
right now. And we know that supply
peaked in early 2025 and sellers have
actually started to back off in the back
half of 2025. And you know, the reason
why they're backing off is because the
demand just simply isn't there for them.
So, you know, I think if there were more
sellers in the market, we could probably
get better price discovery because part
of the issue right now is that buyers
and sellers are just pretty far apart on
what their price expectations are.
Buyers are expecting lower prices and
sellers, the ones that are actually
coming to market, are oftentimes
disappointed when they come to market
and see the offers that they are
getting. They're not really willing to
go that low on price. So, in some sense,
we're not getting what the market
clearing price would be. Um, and that
is, you know, keeping us from sort of
getting to that level of affordability
that buyers need to see.
>> Hey, Chen, thanks for your input. Chenzo
there of Red Fin on the housing crisis
in this country right now that the
president is very, very aware of going
into the midterms at the end of the
year.
>> And also at the end of this month, he's
going to be giving a state of the union
address. And I imagine you are going to
hear a lot more of these housing
proposals under this Trump homes. This
one thing would be you can live in your
home. Again, this is from outside
individuals, but telling the the
administration, maybe you can live in
your home, be a tenant, but that goes to
your down payment. Something else I've
heard come up in a few conversations in
DC to Lisa's point about individuals who
have homes but lower mortgage rates.
Portable mortgages. How does it actually
get implemented is the question.
>> Hard to do that with the way things are
cut up and sliced and diced in this
country. This is a consequence of
post-pandemic monetary policy. That's
the uncomfortable truth about all of
this. The effective mortgage rate now on
the outstanding mortgage debt in this
country has managed to get up to about
4.2%. 3 years ago that had a three
handle. So it's taken 3 years to get up
to 4.2%. And it's going to take more and
more time to ease some of the
difficulties through the mortgage
market. Look, if in the space of 12
months you can have record low interest
rates and the highest interest rate
we've seen in 40 years, which was
essentially Fed policy coming out of the
pandemic, that's why you have these kind
of distortions in the mortgage market.
They're going to take a long long time
to address.
>> Yeah. And unclear exactly how much the
Federal Reserve can really uh shape this
narrative given the fact that
potentially the Bank of Japan has as
much influence over the US housing
market as the Federal Reserve does.
>> True. Coming up next on the program,
we'll catch up with Eric Freriedman of
Northern Trust, Libby Canel of Pimco,
Wely of Black Rockck, [music] and the
Port of Los Angeles executive director
Gene Soka from New York. The second hour
of Bloomberg surveillance up next.
The fundamentals overall in the US
economy still are pretty rock solid.
>> There's so many holes in the data that
haven't been addressed.
>> I do believe in the data. It's a trend.
It's not just a one month thing. This is
still a consumer-led economy. The
consumer is doing fine. We need an
acceleration in the economy.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
[music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Equity
futures [music] on the S&P following the
biggest one-day decline on the S&P 500
in some two weeks. We bounced by a third
[music] of 1% on the NASDAQ up by a
tenth. later on today after the closing
bow. Look out for RNX from Alphabet
tomorrow from Amazon. Tech facing a
[music] big test in the next 24 hours
given the big moves we've seen over the
last 24.
>> And it's not in the hardware, it's in
the software sector. Exactly. What kind
of disruption could we see in places
that provide services that could be
written in a day or in a minute by the
likes of Anthropic? And this is what's
causing a lot of uh some of the blowouts
in an area that people thought was a
safe stream of revenue. And we're seeing
that kind of disruption massively in
markets. Again, I go back to is this a
good thing that you're seeing some 25
30% [music] declines in names so far
this year and you're not seeing bigger
ripples or is this a bad thing showing
just how much there is disruption yet to
come?
>> One update at Anthropic. Just one update
and we're seeing massive companies
absolutely hammered hammered. And not
just them, the private credit firms as
well. And we're trying to work out who's
got the exposure, who doesn't. And that
whole bucket of stocks is just trading
as one right now. And we talked about it
in the last hour. It's sell and ask
questions [music] later.
>> Yeah. The idea that they're being
sentenced before the trial even happens
is one JP Morgan analyst put out there.
This idea that people are not trying to
differentiate who's exposed to what.
[music] They're just saying you have
anything close to it, you're gone. We're
going to sell. So, it raises a question.
Is this an opportunity to buy or is this
indicative of just how much disruption
there could be that causes some
companies to go to zero? Again, this
isn't the kind of disruption that's
going to lead some companies to be less
profitable. It could potentially
eradicate their business models akin to
what we saw with the fax machine or even
potentially uh you know just film.
Everyone remembers what happened in all
the stories about Amazon how that has
changed the industry. There are still
obviously bookstores but [music] there's
not as many Jonathan but earlier you
mentioned Napster. People remember what
happens when you have this kind of
disruption. [music]
Right now we're just talking about the
legal legal framework. What happens to
things like Turboax and other industries
that are relying on this software that
you actually just might not use need to
use?
>> Well, let's run Napster. I think is an
important [music] topic. Why are we
talking about that? Because ultimately
that was the change where people decided
they no want to long no longer want to
pay for music. They decided that that
should just be something they get for
free and that [music] had to change the
whole industry. So if you're a software
provider and for a long long time you've
had this dominance where you can have
these fat margins and these predictable
recurring [music] revenues and all of a
sudden there's these other companies
that come out and say I can provide an
update for you that quickly really short
time frame and for this much [music]
kind of nothing. And the fact that you
had that one update at Anthropic that
managed to upend the story for so many
different stocks, that's why people are
nervous.
>> People have not fully internalized the
consequences of commoditizing coding. If
you can specialize codes at coding to
whatever your particular need is in real
time, you could create and design the
software in real time that you need. The
issue now is accuracy and how effective
it is and what the edge [music] is. But
the fact that you can do that is causing
a lot of people to have some serious
agit. futures this morning bouncing back
by about a third of 1% on the S&P 500.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Eric Friedman of Northern Trust
following a rounded software stocks.
Libby Cantrol of Pimco as President
Trump leans on his record ahead of the
midterms and the executive director of
the Port of Los Angeles, Gene Soka, as a
new US tariff hike looms. We begin this
hour with stocks holding steady
following the biggest one-day loss in
some two weeks going into earnings today
from Alphabet and Amazon tomorrow. Eric
Freriedman of Northern Trust says we're
not in bubble territory, writing, we do
not think the recent price action
suggests that tech leadership is
necessarily troubling. Eric joins us now
for more. Eric, good morning. Good to
see you.
>> Great to see you, J.
>> What are your reflections on what we've
seen through the week so far?
>> Yeah, I think you've nailed it in terms
of just the the dynamic as it relates to
the software stocks in particular. I'd
say that the two things that we hear the
most about in terms of opportunities,
one would be data centers and the second
would be what's happening in private
credit. So that that consideration
around, you know, literally an update,
Lisa, to your point on what may happen
to be in the in the coffers for
anthropic or what have you. The fact
that you're actually seeing more private
market disruption to public companies,
the fact that we're actually seeing
winners in private markets kind of
taking share from public companies,
that's certainly an issue for public
markets to digest. We don't think that
earnings are necessarily overzealous in
terms of estimates for next year. 13%
for calendar year 2026, we think is is
okay. That being said, the more
disruption that actually emerges, that
could certainly, you know, cause some of
those those challenges to uh to to be
rethought.
>> How ringfented do you think some of
these issues actually are? How insulated
is the rest of the market, which is kind
of Lisa's question? What do you think
about that?
>> Yeah, I think that that there is
anticipation of um of disruption. I I
don't think it's like it's a net news
story that for example financial
services or law or software is
necessarily uh let's let's call it
disrupted. That being said the extent
and the speed are what we just don't
know. So one of the things that we have
concerns about would be you know if you
if you think about for example the
financial services space which we know
very well my job is certainly enhanced
by AI and AI tools. That being said
there are a ton of false positive about
just how effective or efficacious some
of the tool sets might be. So, I do
think that, you know, if you look at at
the net impact to consumers, and again,
this notion of that that K-shaped
economy, really the lower end of that K
are the group that's probably most
impacted. Think about uh newly entranced
into the the labor market. So, people
who are just graduating college or
entering trade schools, those are the
folks who are really impacted by higher
rates, higher inflation, as well as
tougher job prospects that are also a
function of this uh of of this this
let's call it more disruptive wave
occurring. know necessarily net new but
has a gradual effect. It's sort of like
that quote that the great Hemingway
quote you know how did you become
bankrupt and the sun also rises you know
gradually and then suddenly it's like
this this very sort of gradual wave that
occurs and then it manifests that
manifestation has not happened but it
certainly is looming which leaves us
again with some focal points on the on
the on the consumer set that's probably
most vulnerable. Just to put a pin on
it, if you see defaults surge in uh in
response to some of this disruption, do
financial markets just keep chugging
along? Does it look like just simply a
small pitfall uh that can be contained
or is all of the debt associated with it
as we see in the private markets uh
space potentially problematic?
>> Yeah, Lisa, you've been very thoughtful
on the private market impact with
respect to, you know, just the
underwriting standards. I mean look the
thing we have to all keep in mind is
that private credit has not really
existed at the levels in terms of total
notional size right now
>> [snorts]
>> um has never faced a credit induced
recession before. We're not saying
there's a credit induced recession on
the backdrop, but again, my my inbox
runth over with opportunities in private
credit. And so, the buildup of of more
lending, the buildup of again
crossindustry lending in the space, uh
this is a is an event where the credit
risk models that are that are really a
part of of you know, private credit
really haven't withstood, if you will, a
sort of ripple effect that becomes
bigger. So, you know, it's kind of
[snorts] like, you know, you and I have
kids. uh you know, we you know, when we
look at at at a private credit manager,
we're like, "Hey, we want to make sure
we're underwriting their process, but uh
it's kind of like having your kid drive
a car. At some point, you have to hope
that they they're checking their
mirrors, they're using their
directionals, and those standards
actually come into play when it matters
the most." So, we haven't yet seen an
event that really drives a stern test of
that underwriting standard, but again,
the buildup could certainly make that
become more of a relevant issue for us.
>> I'm holding out for self-driving
vehicles, by the way. It's really a lot
cheaper in terms of insurance. Uh just
there are a number of people I'm sure
who are looking at this kind of
disruption and salivating, getting very
excited, saying this is when you make
your money. This is when you go out and
you find opportunities. How much do you
find yourself actively buying, feeling
like people are throwing the baby out
with the bath water?
>> Yeah, I think the alternative space, you
know, in particular private credit, look
at, you know, BDC's where you can
actually get a look through, not
necessarily into the underlying, but you
can actually see where they're trading
versus net asset value. There are some
massive discounts out there. I'm not
saying this is a time to run and buy on
mass, if you will, but there are some
selective opportunities. Again, some of
the companies that that you've listed
earlier, very solid credit standards
that are trading at massive discounts to
fair value with some of their underlying
properties and some of their underlying
uh vehicles. We think it's kind of a you
know, a very gradual approach, if you
will, to getting involved. But again, uh
you know, I think that that that bigger
wave of a more credit induced recession,
if that were to to uh you know,
materialize, that would be a certain
caution flag to to be sure. John Gray of
Blackstone yesterday at this Wall Street
Journal event was saying what you see in
the headlines versus what we have in our
portfolio strikingly different. He
thinks the market is very healthy. Then
why do you think they're all trading
this way?
>> Yeah, I think it is, you know, to the
phrase that you've all used very
effectively the last couple days is
that, you know, sell first, ask
questions second. And and that does
often present an opportunity because,
you know, the transparency into the
underlying is really not high. And I
think for good reason. Again, our job,
we think, is to make sure we're
underwriting the process that these
managers, again, very talented managers,
follow and and let them do their thing.
That being said, when there are is a
larger buildup of credit risks that are
looming, that's when we become less
attracted to the space. We don't think
that's the environment right now. So,
this is probably an opportunity again to
uh to rebalance in and um and make some
money.
>> Are you still focused on the US over
international?
>> Yeah, you know, we actually, Jonathan,
have been more dipping into the
international piece. I think you know
the dollar which has been the bigger
driver to dollar weakness if you will I
think you did a good job of covering
Japan earlier the great unlock in Japan
hasn't necessarily been just currency it
has been more corporate governance which
we think is an ongoing theme think about
the number of companies that have been
broken up these really large
conglomerates that are actually you know
becoming smaller more shareholder
friendliness more corporate governance
that's a theme that we think probably
continues and in Europe look it's not a
great growth environment this isn't an
environment where we're seeing you know
pound the table growth. But that being
said, it's incrementally improving. Now,
we're seeing some level of stimulus.
We're seeing some level of of corporate
governance improvement and activity.
That's probably enough to justify
current valuation.
>> This is the problem, I think, not just
for US investors, but international
investors even more. International
investors used to be able to look to the
US, take the dollar exposure, and the
dollar exposure was the natural hedge in
a draw down. That's not guaranteed,
let's put it that way, this time around.
How are international investors thinking
about our markets now in the US given
that as a risk factor the currency and
the disruption we've been talking about
all morning?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think that you know
geopolitical risk plus dollar
instability you know we are sitting on
multi-year support if you will for the
dollar on a trade weighted basis on a
DXY basis and so I think that most
international investors we talk to say
look all you Americans are overweight
your own country and you have been in
perpetuity you've had good reason to
make that happen so either we have to
look through geopolitical disruption and
potential dollar weakness and and you
know go on with the with the momentum
trade if you will or anticipate some
mean reversion back to where we've been
for decades and decades which is more of
a balance between the US and the
non-USP. So I do think there's more
caution about investing in domestic
equities in dollar terms. I do think
there's a lot of interest in US private
markets. That's been a space that we've
seen a lot of our our counterparts in
Europe and especially non Japan Asia
step into. So it's more private market
interest. Public market interest is is
probably a little less on the radar
screen than it was perhaps maybe 5 10
years ago.
>> Eric, good to see you and congrats on
the new seat.
>> Thanks very much.
>> Great to catch up in person. Thank you,
Eric Freriedman there of Northern Trust.
This came from PIMCO in the last week.
Foreign investors enjoyed a free lunch.
Treasuries offered attractive yields
while the dollar provided a natural
equity hedge. That era is over. We'll
catch up with PIMCO a little bit later.
>> And we've heard that consistently, this
idea that people are going international
as a way of diversification.
Diversification doesn't mean bonds and
stocks. It means going elsewhere because
of the potential overweight in US uh
equities in the US dollar that doesn't
exactly provide that same hedge. What a
ride in 2026 so far. Only a month and
change into it. Equity futures up by two
ten of 1% on the S&P with an update on
stories worldwide. Here's your Bloomberg
brief with Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Shares of Uber
plunging in pre-market trading after it
reported disappointing first [music]
fourth quarter results. The ride sharing
giant also giving a weak profit outlook
and naming a new CFO who's an outspoken
bull on driverless cars.
Shares of Eli Liy rising in the
pre-market after it reported a fourth
quarter earnings beat. The drug maker
forecasting an upbeat year for sales as
demand remains strong for its weight
loss drug Mjaro. The bullish outlook
coming as rival Novo Nordisk is warning
investors it could see a double-digit
sales drop this year. And Bloomberg's
Katy Griff will catch up with Eli Liy's
CFO later today.
Netflix and Warner Brothers Discovery
defending their multi-million dollar
merger to a panel of senators. [music]
Netflix arguing the combination of the
two media giants would give consumers
more content for less and help improve
distribution. The still the deal is
still under review by the DOJ. And that
is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Whenever you're
hoping a hearing might be, what the
hearing should [music] be about down on
Capitol Hill and then descends into
something else
>> always. And it descends into what it
potentially [music] is news of the day
or what one senator might want to make
an issue. Yeah, that happened yesterday
with Netflix.
>> You know what that happens? Any day that
ends in DAY, I mean, essentially that's
what you're going to expect because
that's essentially what we get every
single time.
>> Kind of sad on the verge of embarrassing
down in Washington sometimes, isn't it?
It really is
>> evergreen statement.
>> Why [music] do we have these hearings if
we're not going to talk about the
central issue?
>> How are we going to get sound bites for
Instagram, John?
>> Clip them and send them out to
constituents. Drives me insane. Up next
on the program, gearing up for the
midterms. We have nine months now where
nobody has come into our country
illegally.
>> Lower prices, bigger paychecks, $1.99 a
gallon. The only thing that you that's
really going up big, it's called the
stock market and your 401ks. We're
getting rich because of tariffs.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Libby
Kentrol of Pimco from New York City this
morning. Good morning. [music]
Stocks are positive by 3/10en of 1% on
the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq was shaping
up as follows. [music] Up by 0.05
following the route in yesterday's
session. on the Russell outperformance
again up by.5%. [music] And Sylvanas
this morning gearing up for the
midterms.
>> Now the talks are going for potential
changes to the Department of Homeland
Security. Have you agreed to any
specifics?
>> Well, we have a secure border. In fact,
we have 9 months now where nobody has
come into our country illegally.
>> Lower prices, bigger paychecks. 199 a
gallon. The only thing that you that's
really going up big, it's called the
stock market and your 401ks. We're
getting rich because of tariffs.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president leaning into the campaign
promises he's kept as new polling shows
a dip in his approval rating.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall has more. Good
morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, it
appears that President Trump is facing
what's become mounting political
headwinds ahead of November. Not the
least of which is that the opposition
party historically makes gains during
midterm elections. And the stakes really
couldn't be higher for this White House
as they contend with what has been a
downtrend in the polling. Considering
that Republicans have a trifecta right
now in Washington, which means that if
they lose either of the chambers of
Congress, that's going to slow down the
administration's agenda, not to mention
risk the potential that Democrats are
going to ramp up investigations on
Capitol Hill. Now, we've talked a lot on
this program about how the White House
has been trying to refocus the narrative
when it comes to affordability. The
president floating some more populist
messaging perhaps when it comes to plans
for uh banning institutional investors
from buying single family homes, his
idea that they could cap credit card
interest rates. And even as we head in
to this year, Republicans say they think
they're going to get a bounce when it
comes to the polling amid tax season as
they say that we will see record refunds
under the one big beautiful bill. But I
have to say, here in Washington, the
narrative has really shifted to focus on
the president's hardline immigration
policies. That's why I asked him
yesterday in the Oval Office whether or
not he's made progress when it comes to
potential curbs on immigration and
custom enforcement as we are now facing
a looming deadline to fund the
Department of Homeland Security just 9
days away. The thing is he says that
they haven't as Republicans are trying
to thread the needle as we have often
seen between potential reforms on the
president's policies but not disagreeing
with the policy themselves. And John,
even as we have seen all of these come
to fruition uh ahead of the midterms, I
have to say President Trump uh has a
pretty hefty cash on hand. He has
amounted a war chest that amounts to
$483 million as we go into November.
person familiar with the White House's
and Republican strategy says that
President Trump himself will handpick
the candidates that will get this money.
>> Tala Kendall with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. To build
on that conversation, Libby Cantrol
Pimco joins us now for more. Libby, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Is there Rattel in Texas?
>> I mean, I look, I think for good reason,
uh the GOP is paying attention to it.
Obviously, this is a uh a red state, a
ruby red Senate district, the state
senate district that flipped to to
Democrats. um went from 31 kind of a
swing of 31 points from the 2024
election. It is still early days, but
there are other metrics in addition to
these offcycle elections that I think
are warning signs for Republicans. The
approval rating is one of them. Um the
generic ballot sort of generally how do
the how does the population feel about
Democrats over Republicans are favoring
Democrats right now by you know five
points on average. And then enthusiasm.
Democrats seem to be more enthusiastic.
Those are all we have a little mini
midterm election model that we built at
at uh at PIMCO and those all are
statistically sign significant. So in
addition to Texas, the data is also
pointing to um signs that you know like
history the Republicans are probably
poised to lose seats in November.
However, it is really early days. It's
still only even though it was a very
long January it's only it's only it's
it's still nine months away. So a lot as
we
>> Republican strategist said the same
thing to me last night. Amory it's early
days you know don't look at Texas. We
have till November. We have the one big
beautiful bill coming out. What else is
the president going to be focused on
before November?
>> Well, I think Republicans do want show,
not tell, right? Uh President Trump
wants to tell folks, obviously, and this
is sort of what Joe Biden did as well.
Understandably, he's proud of the things
that he's accomplished in 2025. I think
Republicans on the Hill though do want
to pivot to showing and they're hoping
that these very large refunds that the
House households are going to be getting
the fact that withholding tables are
decreased and so big people are getting
bigger paychecks all of this will you
know sort of buoy sentiment. Now what
President Trump has talked about the
sort of affordability agenda and I think
again Republicans want him to pivot from
immigration back to to the affordability
agenda. um things like capping credit
cards, uh preventing uh institutional
investors from buying single family
homes, those things all need Congress
and I don't think we're going to see
Congress do anything honestly on the
fiscal side.
>> It's weird because Wall Street acts like
some of this is done.
>> Yeah. And I think Well, I'm not sure. I
mean, so so the president, you know, and
might frustrate him, understand him, I
think it frustrate other presidents as
well. He just only has limited authority
in terms of moving the needle, right?
The executive branch executes existing
law. It is the Congress that creates the
laws and there is no law that gives the
the the president authority to do either
of those things. What he can do uh Amry,
which we've talked about before, is he
can direct Fanny and Freddy to buy more
agency mortgage back securities. They
have been doing that for several months
uh in the end of 2025. We think they
will continue to lean into that. I think
the read through for maybe for
investors, not only is that good for
sort of mortgage spreads, mortgage
rates, uh, and potentially helping the
economy at least, you know, marginally,
it also does decrease the chances that,
uh, the GSC's go public. I think the
president understands he actually would
much rather control the GSC's than, uh,
to issue them to the public.
>> How much more do you see them actually
buying? I mean, how much could this be
accelerated and become a main story,
particularly at the long end of the
yield curve?
>> Yeah, so Amy, it's a it's a good
question. Um, right now, um, FHFA and
Treasury have capped how much, uh, the
GSC's can hold on their balance sheets,
uh, to $450 billion collectively between
Fanny and Freddy. Right now, they have
about 250 billion as of last filing. So,
they can still go up. I mean, the
president has directed that $200 billion
gap uh to be filled. Now, interestingly,
that $450 billion, that is not a
statutory limit, meaning the Congress
doesn't have to get involved. FHFA and
Treasury, FHFA, the regulator of Fanny
and Freddy, can simply change that. So
there's actually I think a lot of runway
here. Um if you go back to the financial
crisis, Fanny and Freddy owned up to
$1.5 trillion of mortgages. So are they
going to go back there? Probably not. Um
but you know it is there is still more
runway. Now I think the question though
is on Wars and the balance you know the
Fed chair nominee uh Worsh on the
balance sheet because of course they're
letting kind of mortgages run off
effectively selling mortgages. Uh and of
course the other side of the
administration is buying mortgages to
bring down rates. So we'll see. There's
a little bit of tension there, as there
always is, between the fiscal policy
makers and the monetary policy makers.
We'll sort of see if he's asked that in
his uh in his confirmation hearing.
>> I'm really glad that we haven't talked
about a government shutdown so far
today. Evidently, it ended and now we're
fine. Except that potentially
[laughter and clears throat]
not so much in about 9 days when TSA
might get defunded and then we won't be
able to fly. And I'm just wondering how
likely is that that TSA and the Coast
Guard are going to be what gets defunded
in nine days and so that all of a sudden
the airports are going to be absolutely
terrific or in a terrible way. uh in in
the next couple of weeks.
>> Is this bothering you, Alisa? No, no, I
I I No, I I understand. Obviously, this
is the one of the ways that people
consume government services, right, is
through the airports. Um I think happily
we are not going to be talking about a
macro impactful shutdown until
potentially September when Congress then
has to fund the FY27 bill. I think
that's unlikely though we see a
shutdown. Usually folks don't like to
shut down the government right before
the midterms. But you're right that this
one thing that has not been funded, uh,
funding for DHS does include TSA.
There's obviously this negotiation going
on around ICE limitations and what have
you. We'll sort of see how that plays
out, but it we could see that shutdown.
I think more likely though, you might
just see another CR um to sort of build
time. I think that, you know, shutdowns
do not play well politically on either
side of the aisle. And I think both uh
parties have a vested interest in in not
seeing the the government shut down. The
president wants nothing to do with this
government shutdown whatsoever.
>> Absolutely not. He was so excited that
he actually brought the press in
yesterday. The first time he brought the
press in the whole day. They were
waiting maybe to go in for the Colombian
president. Didn't happen. He brought the
press in because he was signing the
government shutdown. He had all the
senators behind him. He was really
excited. He hates having a government
shutdown.
>> Libby, good to see you. Thanks for being
here. Thank you. Libby Cantrol there of
Pimco. Coming up on the program, Way of
Black Rockck doubling down on
infrastructure investing. Plus, Yihira
has your modding movers. Shares of Uber
falling on a weaker than expected
outlook. That name is down by almost 8%
in the pre-market. The broader market
doing okay, positive by 2/10en of 1% on
the S&P 500. Following yesterday's
route, we're struggling for stability
for [music] tech stocks. The NASDAQ 100
just about unchanged. From New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
>> [music]
>> At the oven about two hours away,
equities improving. We're up by 210 of
1% on the [music] S&P 500. Improving
relative to what we saw take place in
yesterday's session. The NASDAQ down
this morning by [music] a tenth of 1%.
And there it is once again. Saw it
yesterday, seen it again this morning.
Outperformance for small caps. The
[music] Russell up by 0.4%. This was
supposed to be the year when suddenly
the rest of the 493 or just the rest of
the economy starts to feel the effects
uh the good effects from artificial
intelligence. Right now the market's
been trading that way. And as we heard
earlier this morning, it's been rather
an elegant handoff from some of the tech
names to the real economy as expressed
by the Russell [music] 2000.
>> Up by 0.5% so far this morning. As we
count you down to the opening bell,
let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Yahara has more. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. Despite AMD beating on [music]
nearly on essentially every metric, we
are seeing shares falling now down 9% in
the pre-market and it was the forecast
that [music] failed to live up to lofty
investor expectations at a time when
we're seeing this massive ongoing
[music] um AI spending boom. I also want
to mention China because AMD did report
a surprise $390 [music]
million in sales to the country after
the Trump administration of course ease
export controls on [music] some of its
older chips. Meanwhile, let's move on to
the earnings that we've got this
morning. We got Eli Liy shares are
surging up 7% in the pre-market after it
forecast sales growing [music] by as
much as 27% this year. That's a sharp
contrast to Novo Nordic saying that it
expects [music] sales to fall near about
uh as much as 13% this year. So, you're
seeing that divergence play out in the
share price with Novo Notice down 3.6%
[music]
in the pre-market. Meanwhile, shares of
Uber also weaker, down nearly 6% in the
pre-market after it issued a weaker pro
a weaker profit outlook. But on a
morning where we're talking about AI
disrupting [music] software, this is
another company feeling the heat.
Analysts had flagged ahead of the
earnings the growing threat it [music]
faces from self-driving rivals like
Whimo and Tesla and how that could chip
away at [music] its core ride hailing
business. It did respond by appointing a
driverless vehicle bull as its next
[music] CFO but not enough to lift
shares this morning. John
>> weak guidance from Uber that stock is
down by 6% in the pre-market. Yhara,
thank you. On our radar this morning,
the sell-off in software stocks weighing
on private market firms blew out an area
among the names falling in Tuesday's
session on fears AI disruptions will
lead to steep losses on their books.
Elsewhere, Nvidia awaiting final
approval from Washington to sell its
H200 chips to China. The Financial Times
reporting the US government is still
conducting a national security review
nearly two months after President Trump
approved exports to Chinese customers.
And finally, Citadel CEO Ken Griffin
criticizing what he sees as favoritism
in the Trump administration.
>> When the US government starts to engage
in corporate America in a way that that
tastes of favoritism, I know for most
CEOs that I'm friends with, they find it
incredibly distasteful. Most CEOs just
don't want to find themselves in the
business of having to in some sense suck
up to one administration after another
to succeed in running their business.
>> Griffin also slamming President Trump's
willingness to enrich his family while
in office.
>> He's running. That's sort of what I'm
thinking. Ultimately, he has talked
about his desire to come into public uh
into public service and a real question
of whether Ken Gin 2028 2032 could be
potentially an option. Look, he's not
wrong. I mean, clearly there were a lot
of CEOs, certainly in Davos, who were
saying, "I don't win anything by getting
involved in any conversations. The goal
is just to stay out of all controversy
and say nothing." Because ultimately,
this is a White House that picks
favorites. And ultimately, those
favorites have ramifications for
business models. And that's something
that's very uncomfortable for CEOs.
>> And we saw that early on after
liberation day. If you're a company that
actually came out and talked about it,
remember Amazon when it was talking
about tariffs, that was a quick rebuke
from this White House and then you
realize, oh, actually maybe things are
better done behind the scenes. I
shouldn't scenes. I shouldn't be so
vocal. He's also talking about something
about the relationship between CEOs and
this administration. But there's also
just the idea that this administration
is going out and picking winners and
losers writ large when it comes to the
equity market. So there's a lot going on
here in terms of how much they have
their hand in corporate America. So, two
different points there. On the last
point, totally agree with you. If you're
a free market capitalist or at least
you'd like the government to pursue
those ideals, you're not seeing much of
that at the moment. On the first point,
speaking publicly is one thing. You're
right to point out the ability to still
speak to this White House and lobby it
privately. And I always go back to the
story of the last 12 months, the most
important story, I think, of the trade
negotiations with the retailers going to
the White House behind closed doors and
telling the administration what was
about to happen. And a lot of people
would point to the bond market or stocks
to say this is why the president backed
off. This is why the administration
backed away. That story was a massive
pillar of the turnaround that we saw in
April.
>> This is a White House that might uh
condemn certain companies for certain
proclamations, but also has a pretty
open door and a pretty open phone line
to a lot of CEOs. So, they're open to
getting that feedback. And this is a
White House that doesn't want to see the
stock market absolutely tank or uh
prices go up dramatically. So there are
different levers here and a question,
but on a public proclamation point of
view, no one's going to come out and
say, "I did that. I caused this to
happen." Because nobody can get the
spotlight other than one person,
>> which is very different to the previous
administration where the door was just
sort of locked and bolted and they
didn't speak to anyone or engage with
anyone for that matter.
>> It seems like there is a lot more back
>> and you should know that we're right.
Trust us.
>> Well, there definitely is a lot more
engagement with the business community
or Trump administration or the Biden
administration. I think really just Gina
Raundo was that main conduit for the
bank for corporate America and then
obviously Janet Yell and Jamie Diamond
they had their whole relationship but
for this administration they are talking
to CEOs on the daily probably hourly
just calling the president directly and
voicing their concerns and they get more
done voicing it behind the scenes than
they do in public.
>> Let's turn to financial markets. Black
Rockck Investment Institute writing the
following. AI and geopolitical
fragmentation are driving multi-deade
investment needs. infrastructure
provides a durable way to participate in
this secular transformation. Way le of
Black Rockck joins us now for more. Way,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> People seem to have more comfort now
investing in the physical world versus
the virtual world. What's changed?
I think we're coming to a point in the
AI transformation where dispersion is
much greater compared to before when
just a mere mention of AI earnings call
get your um stock prices pretty um
exciting to investors. So this is an
environment of winners and losers and
we're seeing markets scrutinizing the
business model durability and terminal
values of businesses a lot more and this
goes beyond just quarterto quarter
earnings. The last six months we see the
performance difference between semis and
uh and and and and and
software 60%. This is extreme dispersion
whilst the overall kind of markets were
going sideways and tech sector is going
sideways. So a lot more um dispersion, a
lot more selectivity. This is an
environment of active investing.
>> So we've already seen extreme
dispersion. Are you suggesting there are
decent reasons to expect that to
continue?
>> I think so. I think so because this is
an environment of uh winners and losers,
right? So speaking with investors across
the platform, the opportunities that we
like reside very much in the physical
space in the infrastructure space. So
we're talking about hardware, we're
talking about uh chips, we're talking
about compute, we're talking about
energy data center buildout. Whereas
software uh especially those that can be
best characterized as intelligent kind
of user interface, they are very ripe
for disruption. Although you know even
within software things like data uh
security things like data repository are
still interesting. So you see a lot more
granular kind of classification of what
we call the AI trade at this point.
>> How much do you see this though as uh
being sort of out of the frying pan into
the fire because if you look at data
centers for example a lot of the data
center buildout has been supported by
private credit by private asset managers
who are uh under fire because of their
exposure to software. I mean how much do
some of the pitfalls in this market
limit the credit available to the
physical buildout of this world in a way
that people were hoping for?
>> So as we think about the factors that
could cail AI ambition there are really
three-fold. Number one financing
constraint. Number two physical
constraint including uh access to kind
of uh um uh energy for example energy
constraint. And then the third uh
constraint is really kind of social and
and political constraint. So I would say
actually the one that is binding right
now the the constraint that is binding
right now is really around kind of the
energy and the physical side of things
because when it comes to financing
actually the starting point of this
companies um in terms of financing and
supporting their capex commitment it's
quite healthy right the the hyperscalers
they are issuing debt from a position of
net cash rather than net debt which is
very very different from the 2000 um and
of course investors and companies are
kind of looking at a range of
possibilities both in the public market
and also in the private market to
finance that debt. But the big picture
is that because earnings are still very
uh strong. Um it's very different from
the 2000 period. This is uh you know
there is some way to go before financing
constraint actually becomes a constraint
that is binding the AI ambition.
>> We'll get to the political constraints
especially in a midterm cycle in a
minute. But when it comes to the credit
financing aspect of this, would you want
to be a buyer of credit? Would you want
to be a lender to some of these uh
physical infrastructure plans or do you
think that right now it's much better to
be on the equity side and some of the
credit side is a bit more speculative?
>> I would say um there we got to be a lot
more selective in the same way that a
huge dispersion is playing out
underneath the surface of uh uh
technology uh within private markets. We
have to be selective which is why you
know really thinking about um good track
record, good uh due diligence uh ability
to discern what kind of exposures you
have uh um in in in the deal is uh is
important and that applies to private
but also applies to to to public as
well.
>> When you look at I mean Lisa mentioned
the political ramifications and also
maybe the policy support from
Washington. this administration that has
really wanted to push AI. You've seen
them in terms of going forward with a
deregulatory push, but potentially then
you have Anthropic coming out and
talking about the fact that if this all
continues, you can maybe see double
digit unemployment. How do you view how
Washington is going to look at this
infrastructure buildout? Well, uh
infrastructure buildout is needed to
actually support the full potential of
AI. So I think the regulatory direction
of travel is one that moves towards uh
deregulation. But of course the
financing the the political constraint
is one that we have to think about. You
know people talk about electricity
prices and then how that has been going
higher at more than twice the level as
average kind of CPI levels last year and
what that means for project permitting.
So those those are the considerations
that we have to consider as we think
about kind of AI buildout. But the
bigger picture is that to your point
this is the administration that wants to
support AI buildout because it's also an
arms race right like it's not just the
US by itself it's US facing off to China
facing off to other parts of the world
so um we do think that the factors will
be in place to support the buildout and
specifically you talked about
infrastructure infrastructure debt is
still very very small you know globally
we're talking about a pool cap a a
pulled capital of $ 160 billion dollars
which is very little compared with the
multi- trillion opportunities both
related to AI and also related to the
lowcarbon transition. So actually when
you look at kind of the gap funding gap
there there is huge amount of
opportunities in portfolios.
>> Well it's good to see you thanks for
dropping by thanks for being here. Why
there of black rock lots to think about
lots and lots to think about. Let's just
go with the politics. That's where the
ultimate constraint could be. The
president often tells this story from
Mark Zuckerberg and relays it to the
public and says Mark Zuckerberg said to
me that they're going to build a data
center the size of Manhattan. And we
talk about the investment taking place
in this country and how great it is. At
some point, that story becomes deeply
unpopular because people start to
realize or start to connect what they're
paying the utility companies with
projects like that one.
>> That story could transform into it's so
great that Meta just committed to buy an
entire new electricity center right next
to your town that's going to finance
your home. And by the way, they're going
to have to build another one to finance
their ambitions, which will crimp in
their profits and then also potentially
crimp their ambitions going forward. I
mean, this is the type of discussion
that could take place in DC. I was in
the room with the president when he
showed the cabinet and all the reporters
actually that photo of the data centers
on the size of Manhattan. The first
thing I thought of was does anyone want
to live near that you're paying a higher
electricity bill potentially because
you're living near that. And also what
are these data centers doing? They're
potentially taking your job because AI
is coming in and making the workforce a
little bit more challenging. That is the
anxiety right now that these politicians
are going to have to deal with.
>> So that's not the case. Steve Englander
yesterday standard child asparagus.
Yeah, that wasn't nice, was it?
>> No. I mean, we came back today, but
beaten up and bruised.
>> There you go, Steve. Futures on the
NASDAQ 100 this morning, down by about
210 of 1% on the S&P moving the other
way by 0.16. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Texas Instruments
share falling in the pre-market as the
company agrees to buy semiconductor firm
[music] Silicon Labs in a $7.5 billion
deal. This marks a continued push from
Texas Instruments into established
markets for chips, [music] including
home appliances, power, and industrial
sectors. The deal is expected to close
in the first half of next year.
President Trump says diplomatic talks
with Iran are continuing following a
spike in tensions. The US Navy shooting
down an Iranian drone headed towards an
American aircraft carrier in the Arabian
Sea. The White House confirming US Iran
meetings involving Middle East envoy
Steve Witkov are still scheduled for
[music] Friday.
Former President Bill Clinton and his
wife, former Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton, are set to testify about their
ties to Jeffrey Epstein. The House
Oversight Committee says they will
testify February 27th and 28th. The Full
House have planned to hold a criminal
contempt vote against the [music]
Clintons if they continued to defy
subpoenas. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> Vonyie, thank you. More from Vonyie in
about 30 minutes in the [music] next
hour. Up next on the program, finalizing
trade deals in Washington.
We're really focused on finalizing our
trade agreements with others, keeping
stability with China. We're in a good
spot. We can't solve every problem right
now, but trans shipment is one that
we're very focused on.
>> Up next, we catch up with Gene Soka, the
executive director of the Port of Los
Angeles from New York City. You're
watching Bloomberg Surveillance
Stick losses yesterday. Stocks bouncing
back today by about 2/10en of 1%. A lot
of those losses concentrated in software
names and private market firms. This
morning we're up 210 of 1% on the S&P
but still lower on the NASDAQ. We're
negative0.12.
[music] Elsewhere under Savannah this
morning finalizing trade deals in
Washington.
Our trade deficit with China has really
improved over the past 10 months which
is a great development. Uh we we do have
some insight into parts and components
going to third countries. uh we
understand that development you know
that's the kind of issue in the future
that can be dealt with rules of origin
etc. You know, we're really focused on
finalizing our trade agreements with
others, keeping stability with China.
We're in a good spot. We can't solve
every problem right now, but trans
shipment is one that we're very focused
on. So, here's the latest this morning.
South Korea's top diplomat meeting with
Secretary of State Marco Rubio as the
country races to avoid a tariff hike.
Gene Soka, the executive director of the
Port of Los Angeles, writing, "Tariffs
continue to keep everyone on edge. I
expect more uncertainty ahead on the
trade front." Gene joins us now for
more. Gene, welcome to New York. Good
morning.
>> Good to see you, John.
>> It's good to see you, sir. Let's get
into the numbers. Talk about tough
comps. I I think that's an
understatement to say that you've got
tough comps relative to last year. How
much have things slowed down? January
over 800,000 container units off by a
little bit more than 10%. February looks
to be about the same. We've got a mid
quarter Lunar New Year. So March will
see a traditional drop off. If you look
at Q1 versus last year, we'll probably
be down in double digit fashion.
>> How much is this a reflection of
consumers not buying? And how much this
is a reflection of a lot of different
industries not wanting to import because
of the tariffs.
>> Lisa, probably a combination of both.
And here's why. Last year and even going
back to the campaign trail as we've
discussed, you saw a lot of runup to try
to build inventories ahead of tariffs
and work unit prices down. Secondly,
while retailers are doing okay, holiday
sales not bad, Matt Sheay says we
crossed a trillion dollars according to
the National Retail Federation. That's
also inflation induced. So the number of
units moving at the retail level a
little bit lower prices have gone up.
>> How much has there been a complete shift
in terms of where things are being
sourced that do come to the port? I'm
just curious if there is sort of a sense
of favoring say paces in South America
over say Southeast Asia. Have you seen
that shift in a material way?
>> Yeah, it's noticeable and companies are
still looking. CEOs and executives are
telling me that their staff is spending
a lot more time both on simulation of
what would happen next based on policy.
Where do I source from? How do I get
contracts in place? And just trying to
keep up with all this information. So
for us, China was 60% of our portfolio
back in 2018. This year it'll drop below
40%. Yet we're still growing because
we've been chasing the freight. But
trying to keep your eye on what's next
is going to be very interesting. trade
deal with India yesterday. Maybe some
possibilities there.
>> Well, this is interesting because I
didn't get a direct answer from
Ambassador Greer and Davos about this.
The trend shipment, how do you track it?
Because China is still sending to the
United States, just not directly from
Beijing. There is Yeah. Yeah. A couple
things. Traditionally, supply chains in
Asia work country to country. So, the
buttons and plackets on a shirt made in
China go down to Vietnam. You make the
whole shirt, sell it to Macy's here on
34th Street. Some bad actors out there
are trying to circumvent tariffs, go to
lowerc cost countries by trans shipping.
But China, as announced in the 15th
five-year plan, is not only exporting
goods, they're now manufacturing
expertise exporters as well. So, they're
investing in plants along the Pacific
Rim and other locations around the
world.
>> Do you think this administration will go
after that?
>> Yeah, probably. So,
>> how challenging is that? It's really
challenging because it's it's tough to
get hard data on where this supply chain
starts and ends,
>> who's funding it
>> and who's funding it.
>> We've talked lots with you about how
much you improve systems and processing
through the pandemic. How much have
things slowed down because of the
tariffs? Can you give us an idea of what
that looks like now relative to where it
was the year before? Well, historically,
compared to the numbers of containers
we're moving right now, we look pretty
decent, but it's been super choppy from
COVID to a little bit of downturn based
on high inventories and then all this
tariff buildup. It just looks different.
But last year was our third busiest on
record in 118 years. And we didn't have
one ship backed up. We're doing things a
little bit smarter, working together,
and information technology plays a huge
role here. John,
>> that's super impressive. We can still
see in the data though that there are
still problems. ISM manufacturing came
out in the last couple of days. And if
you go through the commentary, Gina,
allow me just to go through the
commentary here. Trade tariff
uncertainty is creating volatility in
the supply chain. It's making long-term
planning pointless. This comes from a
range of industries within
manufacturing. There continues to be
uncertainty and added cost through our
global operations. Lisa, just going
through the details, it was a great
number, by the way, decent print. But
you go through the details on a
commentary coming from various
industries. It's not good. It's not good
reading at all.
>> Well, it creates this level of
uncertainty and when you talk to
different CEOs, they say we didn't price
in a lot of the tariffs last year
because we had inventories that we were
uh p pushing through. We don't have
those inventories any anymore. So now we
have to pass along the price increases
and how can they do that at a time where
the consumer is looking for value.
>> So last year we talked about this
concept, this phrase that Jim Zout of
Apollo mentioned and it was macro
paralysis that for a lot of companies
they were just sat still. They couldn't
make decisions, didn't know what to do.
Do you see any of that?
>> I do. Yeah, we we talked some time ago
about people hitting the pause button
and their finger is still on it. Hiring
is flat, new jobs non-existent. And
realistically speaking, companies are
not looking at longer term horizons for
planning purposes and capital investment
also very soft.
>> Then how do you plan for that?
>> We have to invest through budget cycles,
economic cycles and even election
cycles. We've got about $10 billion
worth of projects on the capital side
right now. New terminals for the first
time in a generation. We need a new
bridge crossing onto Terminal Island and
outlining more rail capacity as well as
road connectors to keep this cargo
flowing. We we'll see this. There'll be
ups and downs, but long-term growth will
take place. If companies don't have
inventory anymore and they don't want to
build too much inventory because they
don't know how things are going to
change, how much are people looking for
much faster shipments and smaller
shipments each time?
>> That's exactly what's focusing right
now. And what we saw last year when the
trade policy was softened and tariffs
came down during negotiations. Importers
had windows of opportunity to get their
cargo here. The fastest way was through
the Southern California gateway. So
while overall imports were down in the
country, we were up simply because of
that certainty and the fast pace that we
could get cargo from Asia into the
country.
>> Gene, love this. Always learn something
sitting down with you. Thanks for making
time for us.
>> Thanks.
>> Thank you, sir. Gene Soka there, the
Port of Los Angeles executive director
on some of the issues they're facing at
the moment. Record traffic, all that
front loading last year. The comps are
super tough for the year ahead.
>> Yeah. And it's not just that. It's also
that people don't have a sense of
exactly what the tariff regime is going
to be. of course with AIPA and there's
also this issue of how do you plan ahead
and if you can't plan ahead are you
going to build inventory now going
forward it's a very difficult backdrop
also Jean's point is really interesting
about what China's doing they're not
just sending the inputs anymore to some
of these countries they're sending the
expertise they're building the entire
factories but under a different flag and
then it's [music] coming into the United
States
>> up next on the program Jackrey of JP
Morgan Asset Management joins us to go
through the big equity moves we've seen
in the last 24 hours in software stocks
plus James Eggooff of BMP parab by Brad
Ericson of RBC, Michelle Weaver of
Morgan Stanley. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance just around the
corner.
[music]
>> Earnings are really going strong.
>> There's some great earnings power across
the tech sector. We think equities do go
higher later in [music] the year.
>> Start trimming some of those high
momentum names.
>> I'm positive a lot of this is lighting
money on fire. The question [music] is
when does that fire go up?
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Sur right now. Your scores.
The price action shaping up as follows.
Equity futures on [music] the S&P just
about positive following with the
biggest 1-day route in about 2 weeks on
the S&P 500 on the NASDAQ struggling to
bounce. We're down by 210 of 1% and the
next test is this afternoon numbers
earnings from Alphabet before [music] we
get results from Amazon.
>> Real key here is going to be the
spending that they do on their cloud
computing services. We saw from
Microsoft it was not rewarded because
they weren't able to show that they were
growing their cloud computing platform
as quickly as people previously
expected. Do you [music] get a similar
type of messaging coming from Google or
do we find out that Google is actually
taking share from Microsoft? Right?
These are going to be share wars and
this is going to be show me the money
kind of moments for [music] some of
these big tech names.
>> You need to talk about the data as well
over the next 24 hours. ADP results that
data that job number in about 14 minutes
time. Then [music] ISM services two data
points to take on a little bit more
importance given that we're [music] not
getting payrolls in a few days time.
Isn't it annoying that actually the
government is back up and open? It's
Wednesday and they still can't figure
out to get the payroll report to us by
Friday. Just put it out. Yeah. I mean,
just crunch the numbers a little bit
quicker. Apparently, you can do that
with these AI tools as we've seen in the
software sector overnight. But yeah,
that's why this data is going to be more
important [music] when it comes to the
private sector data. ISM services is
going to be important based off what we
al saw from the manufacturing. [music]
But I guess for the actual payrolls,
we're still waiting on a date. I'm
guessing next week
>> you're up by a single basis point 10 to
427. And it's impressive just how
contained some of these violent moves in
financial markets across different asset
classes over the last several weeks
[music] has actually been.
>> Yeah. Right now when you look at the
bond market, you look at implied
volatility, it has fallen off a cliff.
You think about the fact that we even
now have a new nominee to be the next
Fed [music] chair. Eh, whatever. Taken
totally in stride. Nobody seems
particularly fussed. Is this because
people look forward and they say it
doesn't change the overall economic
dynamic or have people been beaten into
uh just some sort of numb complacency?
[music]
I will say to your point, I think it's
great anthropic should come out with a
tool of how to code Congress and they
could get all of these resolutions
through and potentially we actually have
government that stays open.
>> I have a moment for those staffers that
are actually the ones that have to read
through [music] all the legislation
before their principal goes and votes on
it. I'm sure there's a tool in the next
6 months that [music] you can just pop
that into and gives you a readout of
exactly what they're voting yes or no
on.
>> Are you saying we should do without
Congress?
>> I'm not Maybe we could just help.
>> Oh, help them. to help them actually get
it through so we don't have to shut down
until they actually work. Exactly.
Please
>> looking for clarification.
>> Help them help us.
>> Yes. Far more diplomatic. 427 on TENS
this morning. [music] Coming up this
hour, Jack Caffrey of JP Morgan asset
management on the routing software
stocks. James Agoff of BMP Parabar
breaking down the latest jobs data and
Brad Ericson of RBC Capital Markets with
earnings from Alphabet and Amazon on
deck. We begin this hour with stocks
rebounding as investors remain focused
on concerns surrounding AI and software
names. Jack Kefrey of JP Morgan asset
management writing we have too many
people trying to achieve a version of
the same goal winner takes all mentality
trying to compete for what is now a
scarce resource Jack joins us now for
more Jack good morning good to see you
>> good morning
>> would love your reflections your
reaction to what we've seen in the last
24 hours what was that move about and
how long has it been building
>> you know I think if we look back over
the last several months almost you
actually saw a topping out on a relative
basis of some of the enthusiasm that
went into the AI trade
Um and I think that this is being
reflected into a return of the real
people coming back to whether it's
actual physical data center or a number
of assets that are more physically
constrained whether you think about DRAM
in the shorter term which was power
which was utilities which was grid
connections. Um and if you looked into
yesterday's carnage at one point markets
were down about 1.2% 2% midday and there
were 280 stocks actually up in the index
which does reflect the concentration
issues that so many people have been
highlighting as a risk in the market.
10% of stocks 10 stocks make up 40% of
the market. You don't have to sell a lot
of those to actually create many
positive moves within the market itself.
So I think that there is some rotation
away from hm my pie in the sky long
duration equities are coming under a
little bit more pressure. interest rates
really aren't cooperating at the long
end of the curve. Um ISM was pretty
positive yesterday. So I think it forces
a little bit of a pivot that what used
to be very special is a lot less special
today.
>> So let's talk about market regimes. Is
this just the market regime for the next
5 minutes or so? Or do you believe this
is where the money will be made and
where the money won't be made?
>> Ultimately I think we're going to spend
a lot of time trying to look for what
seems inconsistent. Um, and if you can
tell me that we've gone from two years
of an industrial recession to now data
saying, "Wow, we actually need to spend
real money to engage in all the policy
moves that that we're hearing about
coming out of this administration." I
think it does push uh more money into
more different parts of the market. You
when we look within earnings, we
actually see more earnings acceleration
coming out of the 499
tech leaders than you actually see on an
absolute basis. So secondary of
investing is going to tell you look for
different places and where you've made
your money over the last several years.
>> So the rotation that we've seen so far
this year is real. How much are you
leaning into it?
>> As a value investor, I've been waiting
for this to happen for a while. Counting
my counting the days.
>> Well, how do you know when it's for
chaos, but right but how do you know
it's not overplayed? Right? Because this
is ultimately what a lot of people are
saying that we saw the Russell 2000 do
very well. It's continuing to
outperform. And then when people realize
what the companies actually are, they're
going to say, "Okay, hold on a second.
Maybe we could go back to some of the
other uh bigger cap names that have uh
more significant balance sheets.
>> Well, I I think you know if you look in
an environment where banks were told to
lend, lending standards are loosening,
credit spreads remain really tight, you
actually come with an environment that's
very constructive for smaller companies
here in the United States to the extent
the US also wants to turn its back on
the world. Again, much more constructive
for companies that are much more
leveraged to a US expansion. Um, and
with GDP now printing at still over 4%,
you know, this is still a hotish
economy, inflation is still running
hotter than the Fed's current desires.
When I listen to some of the commentary
out of the nominee to be the head of the
central bank, um, he wants to ignore
data and he wants to lean into more of a
philosophical argument for what should
be a driver of inflation around
government spending and money supply
growth. So, you know, what do you mean
ignore data? He thinks the Fed should be
less data dependent.
>> Well, he's he's talking about looking at
almost like Alan Greenspan,
forwardlooking. We heard Stephen Meyer
talk about this as well.
>> You could say, "I'm looking at the last
print or I'm looking at the last five
prints to form a trend to give me a
sense of what happens." Um, I think, you
know, the Green SpanFed was famously
opaque. I think his quote was, "If you
understood what I said, you weren't
paying attention." Or I twisted that,
but I think, you know, spirit is
certainly there. Um, and
moving away from forward guidance,
moving away from quote data dependency,
I think puts the Federal Reserve
potentially in an environment of
letting markets guess more about what
the intent is and that makes for a more
volatile environment rather than a less
volatile environment.
>> You you mentioned more money going to
policy moves this administration is
talking about. We just had Libby
Cantrell on though from PIMCO and she
was talking about how Trump says a lot
like the 10% interest rate cap. We
already passed that deadline. He
actually even talked about January 20th.
But all of this needs to go through
legislation. It needs congressional
support. So what do you take?
>> I don't think this administration feels
that congressional support is necessary
based on the number of executive orders
that they have,
>> right? But something a policy proposal
like that actually isn't law. So when
you look at what they're saying, how do
you know what you think it might
actually become law and you want to put
money towards? I mean, unfortunately, I
am caught between an environment of
listening to what someone says, watching
markets potentially violently react to
some of those truths or or proposed
executive orders, and then looking to
see what actually winds up happening.
Certainly, this is an environment where
we hear a lot more about picking winners
and losers in terms of flexing
government spending, flexing government
support, trying to change behaviors,
whether it's encouraging banning certain
investors from being able to invest in
certain assets like single family homes
on the part of of private equity
investors or large institutional
investors. limiting reimbursements to
put the money in the people's pockets,
not into insurance companies, carving
out divisions of defense contractors for
direct investment buy. This is a
different version, I think, of you know,
a belief that was hoping for a lot of
deregulation, but there's a seemingly a
pretty large asterisk that's gone with
that.
>> Does that present opportunities or
problems for you?
>> It creates opportunities when we think
markets wind up overreacting.
>> Where do you see that right now? You
know, I think in the shorter term, the
ideas are a weaker US dollar, which
on one hand it seems like in order to be
confirmed as a secret secretary of
treasury, you have to deny that's the
policy. But the president is out saying
I'm okay with that. And I think that it
speaks to why, you know, consumer staple
stocks are probably the strongest group
in the market because they are selling
goods in local currencies that get
translated back in terms of weaker US
dollars and where that they do still
seemingly have some pricing. You know,
if I told you on Monday that the
market's been a half percent of its
all-time high and that the only sector
that's overbought is consumer staples,
you'd look at me saying, "Jack, I think
you're crazy. [snorts] That makes no
sense." But yet that is the market in
which we are operating. Lot of strength
in industrials materials. It tells you
that um things are doing well. Lots of
strength in some transports. Following
off on the comments of the guest right
before me talking about the ports, um
>> I think things get really interesting
for the rails later this year because we
have no snow in the Rockies, which means
probably no water running its way down
to the mighty Mississippi, which will
probably lead to some other disruptions
that we'll we're talking about. Now I've
become a weatherman. So,
>> we'll leave it there.
>> Yeah, thank you.
>> I'll save you from the weather, Jack.
Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you
very much. Jack Caffrey there of JP
Morgan asset management. If you're just
joining us, looking for a bout, you're
not getting much of one. We're up by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P and the NASDAQ is
still treaded softer. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Let's cross
over to Vonyie Quinn for more. Hey,
Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thanks. Eli Lily shares
rising in the pre-market. The company
reporting fourth quarter earnings that
beat Wall Street estimates and
forecasting an upbeat year for sales.
We just put the guide out there. We have
a very thorough process and we feel good
about the guide that we have in place
for 2026. [music] It's still very
compelling by the way 25% there is no
single pharma company growing at this
pace. [music] So we feel a bit about
good. We can see throughout the year if
we see that continue to trend in the
positive direction but [music] at this
time given all the variables that we
have we feel good about the guy that we
have in place. Lily's bullish outlook
coming as rival Novo Nordesk is warning
it could see a double-digit sales drop
this year.
The partial US government shutdown is
over. President Donald Trump signing a
funding deal negotiated with Senate
Democrats. The agreement extends [music]
Homeland Security funding through
February 13th, funds the rest of the
government through the fiscal year.
Federal Reserve Governor Steven Myron is
stepping down from his post leading the
White House Council of Economic
Adviserss. Myin had been on unpaid leave
from his White [music] House role since
September when President Donald Trump
nominated him to the Fed board. He is
serving on the Fed in a temporary basis,
[music] filling a seat vacated early by
Biden administration appointee Adriiana
Cougler. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. John.
>> Hey Vonyie, thank you. More from Vonnie
in about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, the morning calls, plus the
latest ADP employment data set to cross
in just a moment. James Egohoff of BMP
Parabar joins us to break it down from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[music]
Software stocks have been in downtrends
for 6 months. So, I don't think we
should be terribly surprised how this is
resolving itself. You could say there's
a a bit of a deepseek [music] feel to
this from 12 months ago. I I would kind
of keep that in mind tactically, but
there's still long-term downtrends.
>> That was Christopher [music] Veron of
Strategus weighing in on the price
action of the last day and for that
matter of the last 6 months. Equity
futures on the S&P positive by a tenth
of 1%. [music] As for the Nasdaq, we're
down by about a third. That's the price
action. We've got signed for some
morning calls with one stock in focus.
AMD. First up, Bernstein raising its
price target to 235 saying overall
profitability was impacted by higher
than expected operating [music]
expenses. Elsewhere, Bank of America
raising its price target to 280. The
analyst expecting the [music] company's
server business to continue growing
double digits this year. And finally,
Morgan Stanley lowering its [music]
price targets 255, saying the chipmaker
remains a show me story for the stock to
move higher. The stock is moving lower.
We're negative by [music] almost 10% in
early trading. Let's turn to the labor
market. The latest ADP data just
crossing moments ago. Mike McKe has
more. Morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. It is disappointing
numbers from ADP to the extent it gives
us any idea of what's going to happen
when we finally do get the non-farm
payrolls number. Uh 22,000 is the number
of jobs that ADP counted up for the
month of January. And December's numbers
were revised down to 37,000 from 41,000.
So uh two back-to-back disappointments
there. Terms of industries, the
manufacturing industry lost 8,000 jobs.
construction gained 9,000. It's a tale,
I guess, of who's available to work and
what companies need the business. In
terms of uh the job creation, it's
almost all education and health services
as it has been for the last year and a
half or so. 74,000 jobs created there.
Uh we did see a loss of 57,000 jobs in
professional and business services.
leisure and hospitality gaining only
4,000. In terms of uh the pay numbers,
people who ch switched jobs uh got eight
6.4% pay increase during the month.
People who got raises because it's uh
the beginning of the year but stayed in
their jobs 4 and a.5%. Mike McKe with
the latest. Mike, thank you. Downside
surprise, 22K the expected number in our
survey 45,000. With us around the table,
James Egohoff of BMP Parabar. James,
good to see you.
>> Great to be back. Thank you. We've seen
some signs, not here, but elsewhere,
that the labor market was firming up a
bit coming into the new year. Would you
put more weight on that than this?
>> Look, we think the economy is at a great
place this year, but we're very
optimistic about the outlook. Whether
we're looking for very strong growth
that's driven by stimulative fiscal
policy, stimulative monetary policy,
stimulative markets, and the early signs
of AI beginning to impact the economy.
We think there's a likelihood that some
of that is going to slash into the labor
market and support what we think has
already been a pretty resilient. You've
got no cuts for 26. Absolutely not. Just
explain that for us.
>> We think the Fed is going to react to
the data that it's going to follow the
economic outlook and its standard policy
framework regardless of who leads it
over the course of the year. So, we
think that Powell um I think has
delivered the easing he wants to
deliver. We had earlier thought there
might be room for one last one, but the
data has just held up just so well that
we've recently taken that out. Beyond
that, we think the data will tell the
story and that the story of a strong
economy and with a stable labor market
and with inflation that's a bit higher
than what we think the Fed is looking
for.
>> Well, we're not going to get the data on
Friday. So, we're not going to have the
data that actually proves that out yet.
The data that we are getting this ADP
number of 22,000 I mean it's pretty low.
How do you look at this and explain to
people this is actually very good? Well,
this is the debate at the Fed and we saw
Governor Wallard descent saying, "Look,
zero jobs growth over last year after we
see expected revisions in his estimation
that that's not a healthy labor market."
And you have others including Chair Pal
saying, "Look, immigration policy has
changed a lot. There are a lot fewer
people coming to the country. A lot of
people have left. This may well be a
full employment pace of job gains." So,
our view is that that the pace we'll see
over the coming year is something on the
lines of 50k. So this is a little bit
low, the one that we just saw from AD AD
AD AD AD AD AD AD AD AD AD ADP, but that
ultimately is the pace that in our view
close to that pace that maintains the
labor market at this current level of
unemployment.
>> One of the reasons why a number of
people have priced in at least two rate
cuts for this year is not because they
think the economy is going to fall off a
cliff, but because they believe that any
kind of growth is going to come with
disinflation. We saw Pepsi, for example,
cutting prices by 10 to 15% in response
to some of their efficiencies to try to
increase their customer uh volume. How
much do you see this as likely creating
a good backdrop for the Fed to be
cutting? I mean, because if you don't
see any cuts, you don't buy that
disinflation story. Is that right?
>> Yeah. Our view is that the AI boom is
coming and we're going to see a boost in
productivity and but that will also come
with it a cyclical boom as well. And
part of that is because of the neutral
rate rising over time and part of that
is because of the existing level of
stimulus that we're seeing from fiscal
and monetary policy and from financial
markets. So in addition to seeing the
boost, the disinflationary boost to
growth that you're referring to, we'll
see a cyclical boost as well. This is a
similar story to the 90s where that the
Greenspan is widely heralded for not not
hiking during that period. It wasn't
that he cut into that, it was that he
delayed hikes to allow the productivity
boom to play out. And we think that
that's a likely prospect ahead is that
the Fed will stand pat while it sees
strong growth and while it sees some
residual inflation pressure. Well, you
seeing the AI boom and productivity
being inflationary or disinflationary?
>> See, productivity on its own being
disinflationary, but it will come with
more. So, we'll see some growth from AI
and then we'll see even more growth. We
think we're set up for very strong year
of growth and that that will come with
it labor market strength and with a bit
more inflation.
>> When it comes to the AI buildout, data
centers, etc. that is to do you think
inflationary the electricity needed the
cost of building
>> we think it's a moderate impact on the
inflationary outlook tech capex as a
contribution to GDP isn't historically
that high it just become a bit more
concentrated so we think that that's
ultimately a fairly modest you know
impact on our growth and our inflation
forecast what we think has mattered more
has been the overall booming business
sentiment that has come from AI we saw
EISM earlier this week as a as a blowout
we think that part of that is optimism
from AI that's filtering through to the
rest of the economy and supporting
activity that has a cyclical component
to it and we think that that will help
drive growth, help drive labor market
this
>> I'm intrigued by your read on Kevin
Walsh. So let's develop that a little
bit more. Governor Myron said this this
week. I'm probably looking for a little
bit more than a point of interest rate
cuts over the course of the year. Why
would Chair Walsh be that much different
to to Governor Myron? So when I think
about this, I often go back to James
Carville's comment from the 90s that
when he's reincarnated, he wants to come
back as the bond market because he can
intimidate everybody. Ultimately, we
think Fed chairs face fairly strong
incentives to deliver progrowth,
promarket outcomes. Kevin Worsh is well
known for being a very well-worked
person among financial circles. And we
think he will follow the same asset
price signals as other fair shares do.
And that will leave him, in our view,
following a fairly standard reaction
function. We think he will want to do
that because that is what achieves the
best economic result and we think he
will face pressure from the rest of
these to do that as well.
>> At least he's not convinced. I can just
see out the corner of my eye that Brown
wasn't convinced. [laughter]
>> Well, no. I just think that if he talks
to people in the market, there are a lot
of people who actually agree with the
Fed potentially cutting rates at least
two times. I mean, the Wall Street isn't
exactly uh unified in what they think.
And more people who come on the show
think the Fed should cut rates a couple
more times this year than not. So, I
guess that that's that's the skepticism
that I have.
>> Look, we're not hawkish. We're bullish.
So we think we think the economy is
going to perform very very well this
year.
>> Making [laughter] change.
>> Yeah. Well, I just got to tell you our
forecast. So look, we think the economy
is just going to do a bit better. We
think the people have been really
reluctant to give this economy credit
for how strong it is, for how strong the
cyclical impulse is. I think the Fed is
with is is pulling teeth sometimes, but
they've upgraded their forecast of
growth to solid. We think the growth is
going to be strong this year, and that's
going to have implications for the rate.
So you don't buy though that growth can
be disinflationary that you can that you
can run stronger but not hotter, right?
So you basically are are rejecting that
idea. Where is that inflation going to
come from if it's not coming from
housing and it's not coming from laz
potato chips?
>> Look, it's look, you can have
disinflation regression. We just don't
think we're going to. We think the
economy is going to do so well that it's
going to sustain inflation. We think
there's a bit more to run on tariff pass
through. I think that's not quite done.
We think we've got another year of that
at least. And we think that the services
market is going to hold up well and that
you know the the data we'll see today
from ISM services will be will tell us
some of that story again the absence of
any other data this week. We're above
consensus for that print. We were above
consensus for manufacturing which I
noted was a blowout. So we're looking
for another strong print there. And I
think as we see the data over the coming
months you will get the sense for how
well the economy is performing and the
implications that has for a modest
uptick in inflation. James, I'm also
skeptical of Worsh not delivering any
cuts and not just because to Lisa's
point, everyone comes on here and says
at least maybe two we're going to get
this year. How did he get the job? How
did he convince Trump to put him in that
seat if he's not going to deliver at
least minimum one cut this year? Well,
we think that the important thing here
is the relationship with the White House
that Kevin Worch has a long-standing
personal, family, professional
relationship with with President Trump.
And we think that will be helpful to him
in the seat in establishing a more
normal relationship between the Fed and
and the White House. What we've seen
over the past year is not sustainable.
It's not consistent with Fed
independence. that Kevin Morse turns a
new page and should in our view be able
to run monetary policy with greater
independence because he will have that
that trust with the White House. We
think he will start the conversation
with the balance sheet and and talking
about how over time to reduce the
balance sheet. That's where he's made
his name over the past, you know, past
few years. Um we think there's a deal to
be made at the Fed on reducing the
balance sheet over time. And the watch
word for us would be whether Kevin Walsh
refers to the words gradual and
predictable. Ultimately, we think the
market would tolerate a smaller Fed
balance sheet so long as it's not a
surprise. And it comes in a in a in a a
well-communicated way. The market is
much less excited about big big shocks.
And so a big taper tantrum we think
would be riskoff, but a gradual and
predictable transition of the Fed's
regime to a smaller balance sheet we
think would be well taken.
>> That's certainly the interpretation of a
lot of people in precious metals going
into the weekend after that
announcement. Just quickly, what's your
GDP number for this year?
>> We're in the mid twos.
>> Mid twos. Mid twos. Okay. James, thank
you. Appreciate it. James Agoff there of
BMP Parabar. He's not hawkish. He's
bullish. I can see that being the first
line of a Kevin Walsh speech. Can't you?
>> That's fantastic. I mean, it's all the
PR. Exactly. Talking about how this is
the reason why I'm not going to cut
rates is because the Trump economy is so
strong that I can't do it. And it just
sort of works together. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Brad
Ericson of RBC Capital Markets looking
[music] ahead to earnings from Alphabet
and from Amazon from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
The oven about 60 minutes away and we're
struggling to bounce the big tech. The
Nasdaq down by 2/10en of 1%, the S&P 500
up by.1% and some outperformance on the
Russell. Small caps up by 0.4%. As we
count you down to the opening bell,
let's get you some single name some
morning movers. Danny has more. Hey,
Danny.
>> Hey, John. Starting with what's weighing
on the NASDAQ. It's AMD. Shares are down
more than 9.5%.
Sure, everything looked good, but
expectations were so high for this
company. First quarter revenue,
something [music] like 9.8 billion. Some
of the top estimates were 10 billion. A
bit of good news for them. They were
able to sell some of their older models
of chips [music] to China. That not
enough to save shares this morning. A
lot of deal news to work through, too.
Texas Instruments, uh, they will be
buying Silicon Laboratories. This gives
them access to another analog chip
company. They do things like, uh,
industrials, some home appliances, too.
So, widening out their empire. Uh, Texas
Instruments falls off the back of that
news. Silicon Laboratories, they rally
[music] some 50.7%.
Finally, Brookfield Asset Management.
This is the private capital giant
reported earnings this morning. It was a
beat on EPS. Their distributable
earnings and their dividends also get an
increase. But the big news from them is
a new CEO at the helm. They've announced
that Connor Tesy will be taking over as
the CEO of Brookfield Asset Management
from Bruce Flat. An end of an era of
Bruce Flat who will still remain on the
board and will be the CEO of the overall
parent company Brookfield [music] Corp.
And just want to point out it is the
debut of Bloomberg Deals where we have
an interview with the man himself, Bruce
Flatt, who will be joining me around
12:00 a.m. Eastern this morning. John,
>> Danny, thank you. You've absolutely
crushed your coverage of private markets
and the timing for this is absolutely
phenomenal. Walk us through the stories
you're covering a little bit later.
>> Yeah, John. So, it's just that. It's the
change in leadership at Brookfield, but
also this moment for investing. There's
so many forces to deal with, whether
it's the concerns around software or
maybe the more ease of being able to do
deals. We'll also be speaking with one
of the top advisers for Warner Brothers
Discovery. We'll have a healthy debate
on that deal alongside one of the top
M&A lawyers who's advising SpaceX on
their deal. So, it is healthy coverage,
a healthy atmosphere, and we have a lot
to dig into.
>> Danny, looking forward to it. Danny,
thank you. Catch Bloomberg's newest
show, Bloomberg Deals, today at 12:00
p.m. Eastern time. and mustwatch with
Danny Burgerer a little bit later this
afternoon. Let's turn to the economy. US
Treasury out with us quarterly refunding
numbers. Mike McKe has the details. Hey
Mike, good morning John. Well, no
surprises here. Treasury is offering 125
billion in Treasury securities this
quarter to a refund about 90.2 billion
in maturing notes. The issuance will
raise new cash from private investors of
approximately 34.8 billion uh billion.
The breakdown in terms of the auctions
is a three-year note 58 billion. The
10-year 42 billion and a 30-year bond 25
billion. No real change from what we
have seen. Treasury had brought down
their borrowing estimates for the
quarter to 574 billion their net
borrowing estimates from 578. Uh and
they also say in this uh release today
that uh they still anticipate that
nominal coupon and floating rate auction
sizes will be maintained for the next
several quarters. They'll well
positioned to address potential changes
to the fiscal outlook and they'll make
up any differences with bill sales. So
no excitement, no change there. Uh the
management of the finances at Treasury
continues about the same. Mike McKe,
just walk us through what tax refunding
is going to look like over the next few
months because the market is
hyperfocused on some of the perceived
benefits that will come with that.
What's your read and what are you
hearing from your contacts about what
they expect to see over the next several
months?
>> Well, what you're going to get is
perhaps faster refunds this year and
because people are going to be getting
their taxes done sooner in the
anticipation of getting more money back.
you'll get more money back, but of
course that depend how how much you get
depends on what your income level is.
And the people with the higher incomes
get the bigger refunds and perhaps spend
less of it. A lot of this is anticipated
to go from what I've been reading from
analysts into paying off credit card
debt that already exists. So there may
be a bit of a stimulus from this, but it
may not be as much as perhaps the
administration hopes.
>> Mck with the latest. Michael, thank you.
A center tech, the big event of the last
day or so, in fact, the last 12 months.
Investors await in the latest earnings
from Alphabet and from Amazon. Brad
Ericson of RBC Capital Markets writing,
"AI beneficiaries must continue to show
their work while those viewed as
vulnerable need to clear the bar with
numbers that somehow aim to recast AI as
a source of leverage rather than a
threat." Brad joins us now for more.
Brad, welcome to the program. Before we
push forward and talk about Alphabet,
can we just reflect on what we saw from
Microsoft and whether some of the
problems that they've had to navigate
are problems that Alphabet can avoid?
Uh yeah sure and take this as a comment
on the company not the stock because I
don't cover it to be clear but um yeah I
think the the question is is how to
frame kind of capacity constraints. I
think in Microsoft's case they talked
about sort of reallocating some of their
chip capacity to uh internal workloads
which obviously doesn't produce revenue.
Um and so you know the question is for
tonight uh sorry for tonight and for
tomorrow night with with Amazon and
Google is you know how much do they sort
of emphasize that chip capacity uh
constraint and overall infrastructure
capacity constraint where Meta actually
deemphasized it I would say last week
when when we heard from them.
>> So Brad let's just stay on that because
I think it's important for Alphabet when
it comes to Alphabet. Unlike Copilot
it's hard to make the argument that
Copilot is crushing it right now. Gemini
seems to be is that the differentiating
factor right now?
>> Yeah, I think so. I mean, Google has
been pretty I think straightforward
honestly with with the strategy which is
they have a great technology, a great
set of models they believe uh that
they've come out with with kind of the
Gemini family and and they have I think
it's 10 businesses north of of a billion
users. And so now their job is to sort
of infuse that model technology into
each of those businesses. and those
those user bases essentially. So I think
they've done a great job in doing that
and certainly we the the the output of
that the manifestation is uh the search
business which gets kind of the most
focus um and and our checks through the
quarter suggested a lot of strength uh
continues there.
>> It's always interesting for me to see uh
who companies see their biggest
competition as and at one point Google
and Microsoft and Amazon viewed as the
most direct competitors because of cloud
computing. How much do you expect Google
in particular to look at the likes of
Anthropic as a big competitor as they
try to get the upper hand in some of the
LLMs?
>> Uh yeah, I mean absolutely they're
competing with all the native L uh AI
companies I would say. So, uh, Anthropic
has has certainly emerged, uh, in the
enterprise space and and I think
increasingly with some of their tools
that are maybe crossing over into the
proumer kind of environment with co-work
and and creating some of these latest
plugins which obviously has triggered a
lot of this software downturn uh, we
we've seen here very recently. Um I I
think you know when you step back from
it Google's job on the search business
is still to kind of own that top of
funnel is what we call it the consumer
relationship where somebody is kind of
addressing the internet and and that has
expanded to generative search um AI
overviews all these different places you
can start. So they need to they need to
certainly own that. And then I think the
one that the the piece of the business
that everybody's even more excited about
just particularly in the last few months
is the Google Cloud business where
they're winning a lot of big deals.
There's prospects for for more
optionality with their own chips and
margin potential. So it's just a lot of
lot of good stuff going on there.
>> Of the large cap stocks over the past
three and five years, Google and Walmart
are the two that have outperformed the
most significantly. And it's pretty
interesting to see this. amid a backdrop
when there are a lot of questions around
the preeminence of AI and who exactly
the winners are going to be. Do you
think that that will continue to be the
case or do you think that Google's going
to get caught up with the rest of the
big tech sphere in the rotation that we
see currently underway in markets?
Yeah, I think our view on this has been
at least for internet stocks which is
which is what we cover uh that the the
potential for further concentration of
market cap uh we think exists uh pretty
pretty predominantly and the reason for
that really is that in a world where the
applications of AI are still they're
they're emerging we're learning what
they will be but we still don't exactly
know who the players are going to be.
don't know what the differentiation is
going to be and therefore we don't know
what the profit uh expansion is going to
look like but we do know one thing right
you need lots of compute and that value
acrru to a relatively few number of
companies thus we expect the market cap
consolidation to kind of align uh with
that
>> Brad that's why for a lot of people
they're focused on the physical world
and on hardware and what's really lagged
has been software and the question we've
been exploring throughout the whole of
this morning is whether those names can
get out of this rut Brad, what do you
think these companies need to
demonstrate for these stocks to get out
of the rut they're in?
>> Yeah, we cover a couple companies in the
web design space that kind of cross over
into the software space. So maybe keep
it keep it to those types of companies,
but uh very simply, you have to show
accelerating metrics and hope and
hopefully accelerating revenues. And the
reason is is you mentioned you
referenced the quote from one of our
research notes earlier. um you have to
these companies have to accelerate in
order to sort of recast themselves as AI
beneficiaries and not facing AI
headwinds. That's the key thing. And I
know that sounds kind of stupid simple
more or less, but that's it. That's what
you have to do in this environment
because it's kind of a guilty before
proven innocent type of situation.
>> Simple but important and speaks to the
moment that's for sure. Brad, appreciate
your time. Brad Ericson there of RBC
Capital Markets. Capacity constraint.
That's what hurt Microsoft last week,
but also allocating those resources to
internal things and not to Azor
customers. And whether we see that play
out with Alphabet, I think a lot of
people think that's unlikely, but that's
going to be the focus.
>> Yeah. Exactly. What they're spending on
and whether they're growing uh their
customer base more than people expected.
What I find interesting is that the bar
is pretty high and unless they're able
to clear it dramatically, you get
punished in a significant way. It's
really important to just repeat
Microsoft beat expectations. the average
expectations and they still were
punished in terms of how much they grew
their Azure business. So, it does seem
like people really want to see that
incredible speed of growth that they've
become accustomed to.
>> We've got another headline to get to as
well. So, this is coming out of China
and the Chinese press that President Xi
has had a phone call with the president
of the United States, Donald Trump.
Limited information right now, but
that's the headline that just crossed
moments ago.
>> Yeah, unclear exactly what this is
about. This could be a check-in about
things like trade, potentially soybeans.
the president is trying to get to China.
What is also going on in terms of trying
to broker a peace agreement when it
comes to Ukraine? Obviously, some of the
conflict like we saw yesterday, the F-35
shooting down Iranian drone in the
region. Unclear what this is about, but
remember this is the year the president
has said he would go to Beijing and
that's in April. We are now in February.
So potentially this is just a check-in
call before that trip or there's wider
trade disputes at play. I'd expect the
president to give his readout of that
conversation pretty quickly following
this call.
>> Well, it depends what the readout is,
right? But yes, I would imagine that
that's the case, especially if it has
anything to do with either chip
purchases because there have been some
reports about some of the chip sales to
China being delayed or if it has to do
certainly with Russia and the oil coming
out of there. It's a great point about
chips because the Financial Times has
that story this morning about the Nvidia
chips and how it's an inter agency
approach. Maybe the work has been done
with commerce, but an official speaking
to the Financial Times said we're still
waiting on state. I keep refreshing
truthocial.com/real
Donald Trump. And so far, I don't see
anything yet. So, but I imagine usually
what happens with these phone calls is
China does leak first and then we get a
very long readout from the president.
>> You're not alone. Keep tracking that.
The latest headline, if you're just
joining us, the president of China, Xi
Jinping, holding a phone call with the
president of the United States, Donald
Trump. This according to the Chinese
press just moments ago. No more details
other than that headline. Any more we
get, we'll bring it to you. Let's give
an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Vonyie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie. Hey,
John. Thanks. So, recapping the data
from earlier this hour, ADP private
sector payroll surprising to the
downside in January, totaling just
22,000 new jobs. That's fewer than half
the median estimates from economists who
called for 45,000 jobs. It's also a
notable drop off from the prior month
that saw payrolls revised down to
[music] 37,000.
Open AAI CEO Sam Olman saying the
company may consider investing in or
subsidizing drug discovery firms that
rely heavily on its AI. Alman telling a
conference that OpenAI could cover its
technology costs and take a royalty from
any breakthroughs. He said the company
has no such partnerships now and is only
exploring the idea for the future.
Nintendo shares falling to their lowest
in more than a year after weaker than
expected earnings. Rising memory prices
threatening margins for the Switch 2
even with long-term supply contracts in
place. Nintendo left its fullear revenue
and profit guidance unchanged and
maintained its Switch [music] 2 sales
forecast at 19 million units. And that
is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus, we'll catch up with
Michelle Weaver of Morgan Stanley Wang
on the software selloff that's dominated
financial markets [music] through
Tuesday into Wednesday. From New York
City, you're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> We talked some time ago about people
hitting the pause button and their
finger is still on it. [music] Hiring is
flat. New jobs non-existent. And
realistically speaking, companies are
not looking at longerterm [music]
horizons for planning purposes and
capital investment also very soft. That
was the brilliant Gene Seroka, the
executive director of the Port of Los
Angeles on the program in the last hour
or so. If you're just joining us,
welcome to the program. Equity futures
[music] on the S&P 500 positive by a
tenth of 1%. Tech is struggling to
bounce. That's kind of the headlines so
far of this session. The NASDAQ 100 is
down by another third of 1%. And there's
your out performance once again. The
Russell [music] small caps up by 0.5. A
headline crossed the Bloomberg terminal
a little bit earlier this morning about
10 minutes ago that [music] the
president of China was sitting down and
having a phone call with the president
of the United States, Donald Trump, and
that is all the detail we have on
[music] that matter.
>> That's it. We're waiting for a readout.
I'm sure the president of the United
States, Donald Trump, of course, usually
goes to truth. How this usually works,
I've noticed with between these two
individuals, China [music] will always
leak that the phone call happened and
then we just have to sit and wait to get
the details from President Trump. To
Lisa's [music] point, it could be about
what's going on with the Nvidia chips.
The fact that those still have not gone
through the security clearances [music]
to potentially go to these ba these
firms in Beijing. It could be about
trade. It could be about what's going on
with Ukraine potentially getting a peace
deal. We don't know yet, but we await
those details.
>> The story might be that the phone call
[music] is ongoing as well. We don't
know if it's concluded just yet either.
So hopefully in the next 10 minutes, we
have an update for you. Looking ahead,
this is what the trading diary looks
like. Later this morning, the Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson beginning two
days of testimony on Capitol Hill. That
should be fun. Treasury Secretary's got
a decent [music] sense of humor. I think
he's gonna push him around just a little
bit. Antagonize them.
>> Nicki Minaj. Yeah, I was gonna say Nicki
Minaj is gonna make the appearance
behind [music] him.
>> So, look out for that. After the close,
Alphabet earnings tomorrow. Rate [music]
decisions from the European Central Bank
and the Bank of England. Plus, another
round of jobless claims and results from
Amazon. [music] Those two earnings
reports critical given the push back
we've seen to big tech.
>> Yeah. What will it take for the
leadership of big [music] tech to
reassert itself at a time where they
have not reprised some of the highs that
they saw last October? And [music]
frankly, you've seen this whole sector
really trade sideways since then. So,
what are people looking for? What do
they want? What do they need? And that's
what we're going to basically get a test
of with Amazon and Alphabet
>> and passion looking ahead to the close a
little bit later, right? Yeah.
>> And the earnings that come afterwards.
All right.
>> I actually love these earnings.
>> So do I. You know, I do. They're my
favorite. I can't stand the bank
earnings. Bank results in the morning.
your numbers. Don't really read them.
Move on really quickly.
>> It's try to come up with a theme.
[music]
>> Yeah, it's difficult.
>> It's tough.
>> Anyway, let's stay on tech. Let's stay
on equities looking to bounce back after
a route in software stocks leading to
the S&P 500's worst day in two weeks.
Michelle Weaver of Morgan Stanley
writing, "Inves investor sentiment in
software has been poor for quite some
time as investors expect disruption in
the industry. AI adoption or AI
disruption has been a theme this earning
season." Michelle joins us now for more.
Michelle, good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me. What
is the difference between adoption and
disruption right now?
>> So adoption is really where where are we
seeing the benefits from AI? Most of the
returns so far have accred to the
enablers, the people building the picks
and shovels allowing the data centers to
be built. Now I think companies are
really or investors are really starting
to think what are the implications? What
companies are going to be disrupted? So
with the news you heard yesterday,
software stocks sold off. As these AI
models become more capable, where could
that disrupt business models? and
software has been the area where
investors have been the most skeptical.
It's bleeding out into some of the data
services companies, but but investors
are really just thinking what's the
future in this AI world.
>> It looks like a massive loss of pricing
power for those names. Who are the
winners?
>> So, uh if you're able to adopt AI into
your business model and make yourself
more efficient. So, we've already seen
that for some companies. So if you're
able to, you know, make your computer
programmers way more efficient, if
you're able to make your salespeople way
more efficient, if you're able to make
your warehouses way more efficient,
those are the winners.
>> Right now, I'm just struck by the fact
that we're seeing pretty big disruption
and some pretty big swoons in stock
prices and we're not seeing broader
dislocation. Do you think that that's
sustainable?
>> I think it's it's more limited for now.
Um, I think the really important AI
catalyst for everyone to keep in mind is
what's going to happen when the next
batch of models come out. So the the
labs were able to assemble 10x the
compute to train the next batch of
models and those should be coming out
this spring and summer. So once we see
the capabilities there, I think that's
when people are going to really start
thinking about what that means for
different business models.
>> Based on what you're hearing, what
areas, what sectors do you think could
be most disrupted by those future models
that are going to come out later this
summer? So I I think uh a lot is being
focused on the services where could AI
just come in and do the job instead of
the company. So uh legal is a big one
that that was part of the news from
yesterday. But you know if you spent a
ton of money on lawyers to draft a
prospectus for you and now an AI
software is able to come in and do that.
That's hugely disruptive.
>> What about taxes editing a book? I mean
isn't it almost every single industry
it's pervasive?
>> It's pervasive but there will also be
winners. This is not, you know, going to
come in and disrupt every company in the
market. Companies are trying to position
themselves for this post AI future and
we're seeing the number of quantifiable
benefits from AI adoption rise for
companies. So, they are seeing returns
here. How long do you think it is though
to see proper winners from this? John
mentioned Napster before. Obviously, I
mean, I pay for Spotify.
>> I didn't pay for Napster obviously and I
felt like why should I be paying for all
these CDs? But at some point, we got to
a place where I'm paying for a service
for that music. How long is that
timeline going to be?
>> I think they're already emerging. I
think 2026 is where we're really going
to focus in on AI adoption. Our tech
team runs a great survey of CIOS and
they say that by the end of this year,
81% of companies expect to have some AI
product live by the end of the year. So,
past that testing phase, we are going to
start seeing these come online.
>> Let's take it to the index. So many
people watching the program have their
exposure to equities through the index
passively market weight. We can see the
membership. We can see the waitings
given the risk and the opportunities
right now. Is this a world where that
index can generate decent returns?
>> Absolutely. So from an equity strategy
perspective, our price target is 7,800
on the S&P for the end of this year.
Even early last week, we went up and
touched 7,000. I think we're overall
still in a very strong position for the
market and in a position for these
returns to broaden out. It's not just
going to be limited to mega cap tech or
some really big winners. We're seeing
the earnings picture, the fundamental
picture improve for the median company.
For the median company in the Russell
3000, earnings is up 13% year-over-year
tracking this quarter. So, we are seeing
a fundamental improvement.
>> Lisa mentioned existential risk at the
very beginning of the program.
>> So, let's talk about that. you know, as
you'd expect, [laughter]
>> and the prospect of systemic risk
>> when you see what's building in say
private market firms, and I don't want
to overdo it because we don't have a
decent read on what they're sitting gone
and the prospect of loan losses and all
of that stuff, but is there a prospect
that something happens here that drags
down investor sentiment wholesale that
is a threat to your outlook?
>> Uh, I think, you know, one of the bigger
threats for for the broader market we're
thinking about right now is in a theme
we're writing about called societal
shifts. And what does AI mean for the
labor market? So far, we've seen very
few um you know direct announcements of
AIdriven layoffs. So companies saying
we're going to replace these workers
with these AI tools. But it was
something you heard a lot about at Davos
was tech leaders talking about what does
this mean for the future of workers?
What does this mean for the future of
labor? Um I think you're going to see
some big shifts under the surface
starting to happen. not necessarily a
draw down in the total number of jobs,
but the types of jobs people are doing,
I think are really going to start
changing under the surface.
>> And does that fall onto Washington's
radar and they push back against
development? How do the dominoes fall
from there?
>> I think I think we're going to start
seeing seeing more policy-led
announcements. I think the policy focus
right now on AI and its impact on
consumers has been through the power
lens. Power is still one of the main
bottlenecks to building out AI. Um, but
consumers are really pushing back and
saying, "What does this mean for my
power bills?" And you're starting to see
the political chatter really pick up
around that and how can we stop that?
>> Michelle, it's good to see you. Thanks
for breaking it down, Michelle. We waver
there. Morgan Stanley, exactly what you
were talking about earlier on.
>> And it's not just the fact that the
administration is picking up on that.
They're basically telling energy
companies, you need to subsidize the
electricity bills for consumers. And
that's going to be a huge deal going
into the midterm.
>> We've all seen the push back over the
past year, never mind the past few
months. It's building. Look, if you're
looking for a clean narrative, you're
going to have to wait until 2027 or
2028. And that, I think, is what keeps
coming clear. And we're all sort of
searching for a neat way to sum up what
feels very dramatic. And it's sort of
one conversation after another of people
pushing back. H that narrative is too
cute. H you better watch out for that
one. And this is why it's so difficult
and the reason why people say look at
names go through the balance sheet
starts to become more important.
>> Chris Veron of Strategus, I think, with
the quote of the morning so far. Don't
hold on to those narratives too tightly.
Things can change very very quickly.
Coming up tomorrow, seash of principal
asset management, Mark Mahaney of
Everore, Liz Anne Sulls of Charles swab,
Abby Yoda of JP Morgan [music] Private
Bank from New York City this morning.
Good morning. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
>> [music]